The Project Gutenberg eBook of Caprice, by Ronald Firbank

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Caprice

Author: Ronald Firbank

Illustrator: Augustus John

Release Date: February 19, 2023 [eBook #70073]

Language: English

Produced by: Tim Lindell, Barry Abrahamsen, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was
             produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
             Digital Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CAPRICE ***


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                CAPRICE




------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           BY THE SAME AUTHOR


                  VAINGLORY

                  INCLINATIONS

                  ODETTE: a Fairy Tale for Weary People

                  GLENMOUTH: A Romantic Novel [_In Preparation_]




------------------------------------------------------------------------




[Illustration]




------------------------------------------------------------------------



                               +CAPRICE+




                                   BY


                             RONALD FIRBANK




                                   ❦




                 _With a Frontispiece by Augustus John_




                                 LONDON
                          GRANT RICHARDS LTD.
                           ST MARTIN’S STREET
                            LEICESTER SQUARE
                               MDCCCCXVII


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                      PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
                 THE GARDEN CITY PRESS LTD., LETCHWORTH




------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                   TO

                           STEPHEN HAMMERTON




        Τίς δ’ ἀγροιῶτίς τοι θελγει νόον,
        οὐκ ἐπισταμένα τὰ βράκε’ ἔλκην ἐπὶ τῶν σφύρων.—_Sappho._


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   I


THE clangour of bells grew insistent. In uncontrollable hilarity pealed
S. Mary, contrasting clearly with the subdued carillon of S. Mark. From
all sides, seldom in unison, resounded bells. S. Elizabeth and S.
Sebastian, in Flower Street, seemed in loud dispute, while S. Ann “on
the Hill,” all hollow, cracked, consumptive, fretful, did nothing but
complain. Near by S. Nicaise, half-paralysed, and impotent, feebly
shook. Then, triumphant, in a hurricane of sound, S. Irene hushed them
all.

It was Sunday again.

Up and up, and still up, the winding ways of the city the straggling
townsfolk toiled.

Now and again a pilgrim perhaps would pause in the narrow lane behind
the Deanery to rest.

Opening a black lacquer fan and setting the window of her bedroom wide,
Miss Sarah Sinquier peered out.

The lane, very frequently, would prove interesting of an afternoon.

Across it, the Cathedral rose up before her with wizardry against the
evening sky.

Miss Sinquier raised her eyes towards the twin grey spires, threw up her
arms, and yawned.

From a pinnacle a devil with limbs entwined about some struggling
crowned-coiffed prey, grimaced.

             “_For I yearn for those kisses you gave me once
              On the steps by Bakerloo!_”

Miss Sinquier crooned caressingly, craning further out.

Under the little old lime trees by the Cathedral door lounged Lady
Caroline Dempsey’s Catholic footman.

Miss Sinquier considered him.

In her mind’s eye she saw the impression her own conversion would make
in the parochial world.

“Canon Sinquier’s only daughter has gone over to Rome....” Or, “Canon
Sinquier’s daughter has taken the veil.” Or, “Miss Sinquier, having
suffered untold persecution at the hands of her family, has been
received into the Convent of the Holy Dove.”

Her eyes strayed leisurely from the powdered head and weeping
shoulder-knots of Lady Caroline Dempsey’s Catholic footman. The lack of
movement was oppressive.

Why was not Miss Worrall in her customary collapse being borne senseless
to her Gate in the Sacristan’s arms? And why to-night were they not
chaunting the Psalms?

Darting out her tongue, Miss Sinquier withdrew her head and resumed her
book.

“Pouf!”

She shook her fan.

The room would soon be dark.

From the grey-toned walls, scriptural, a _Sasso Sassi_ frowned.

“In all these fruitful years,” she read, “the only instance he is
recorded to have smiled was at a great rat running in and out among some
statues.... _He_ was the Ideal Hamlet. Morose of countenance, and
cynical by nature, his outbursts, at times, would completely freeze the
company.”

Miss Sinquier passed her finger-tips lightly across her hair.

“Somehow it makes no difference,” she murmured, turning towards a glass.
To feign Ophelia—no matter what!

She pulled about her a lace Manilla shawl.

It was as though it were Andalusia whenever she wrapped it on.

    “_Dona Rosarda!_”

    “_Fernan Perez? What do you want?_”

    “_Ravishing Rosarda, I need you._”

    “_I am the wife of Don José Cuchillo—the Moor._”

    “_Dona Rosarda Castilda Cuchillo, I love you._”

    “_Sh——! My husband will be back directly._”

Stretched at ease before a pier-glass, Miss Sinquier grew enthralled.

An hour sped by.

The room was almost dark.

Don José would wish his revenge.

“_Rosarda._”

“_Fernando?_”

“_Ah-h!_”

Miss Sinquier got up.

She must compose herself for dinner—wash off the blood.

Poor Fernan!

She glanced about her, a trifle Spanish still.

From a clothes-peg something hanging seemed to implore.

“To see me? Why, bless you. Yes!”

With an impetuous, pretty gesture she flung it upon a couch.

“How do I like America?”

“I adore it.... You see ... I’ve lost my heart here—! Tell them so—oh!
especially to the men.... Whereabouts was I born? In Westmorland; yes.
_In England, Sir!_ Inquisitive? Why not at all: I was born in the sleepy
peaceful town of Applethorp (three p’s), in the inmost heart—right in
the very middle,” Miss Sinquier murmured, tucking a few field flowers
under her chin, “of the _Close._”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   II


“SALLY,” her father said, “I could not make out where you sat at
Vespers, child, to-night.”

In the old-world Deanery drawing room, coffee and liqueurs—a Sunday
indulgence—had been brought in.

Miss Sinquier set down her cup.

Behind her, through the open windows, a riot of light leaves and
creepers was swaying restively to and fro.

“I imagine the _Font_ hid me,” she answered with a little laugh.

Canon Sinquier considered with an absent air an abundant-looking moon,
then turned towards his wife.

“To-morrow, Mary,” he said, “there’s poor Mrs. Cushman again.”

At her cylinder-desk, between two flickering candles, Mrs. Sinquier,
while her coffee grew cold, was opening her heart to a friend.

“Do, Mike, keep still,” she begged.

“Still?”

“Don’t fidget. Don’t talk.”

“Or dare to breathe,” her daughter added, taking up a Sunday journal and
approaching nearer the light.

“‘At the Olive Theatre,’” she read, “‘Mrs. Starcross will produce a new
comedy, in the coming autumn, which promises to be of the highest
interest.’”

Her eyes kindled.

“Oh God!”

“‘At the Kehama, Yvonde Yalta will be seen shortly in a Japanese piece,
with singing mandarins, geishas, and old samurai—’”

“Dear Lord!”

“‘Mr. and Mrs. Mary are said to be contemplating Management again.’”

“Heavens above!”

“‘For the revival of _She Stoops to——_’”

Crescendo, across the mist-clad Close broke a sorrowful, sated voice.

“You can fasten the window, Sarah,” Canon Sinquier said.

“It’s Miss Biggs!”

“Who could have taught her? How?” the Canon wondered.

Mrs. Sinquier laid down her pen.

“I dread her intimate dinner!” she said.

“Is it to be intimate?”

“Isn’t she always? ‘Come round and see me soon, Miss Sarah, _there’s_ a
dear, and let’s be intimate!’”

“Really, Sally!”

“Sally can take off anyone.”

“It’s vulgar, dear, to mimic.”

“Vulgar?”

“It isn’t nice.”

“Many people do.”

“Only mountebanks.”

“I’d bear a good deal to be on the stage.”

Canon Sinquier closed his eyes.

“Recite, dear, something; soothe me,” he said.

“Of course, if you wish it.”

“Soothe me, Sally!”

“Something to obliterate the sermon?”

Miss Sinquier looked down at her feet. She had on black babouches all
over little pearls with filigree butterflies that trembled above her
toes.

             “_Since first I beheld you, Adele,
             While dancing the celinda,
             I have remained faithful to the thought of you;
             My freedom has departed from me,_
             _I care no longer for all other negresses;
             I have no heart left for them;—
             You have such grace and cunning;—
             You are like the Congo serpent._”

Miss Sinquier paused.

“You need the proper movements....” she explained. “One ought _really_
to shake one’s shanks!”

“Being a Day-of-rest, my dear, we will dispense with it.”

         “_I love you too much, my beautiful one—
         I am not able to help it.
         My heart has become just like a grasshopper,—
         It does nothing but leap.
         I have never met any woman
         Who has so beautiful a form as yours.
         Your eyes flash flame;
         Your body has enchained me captive._

         _Ah, you are like the rattlesnake
         Who knows how to charm the little bird,
         And who has a mouth ever ready for it
         To serve it for a tomb.
         I have never known any negress
         Who could walk with such grace as you can.
         Or who could make such beautiful gestures;_
         _Your body is a beautiful doll._

         _When I cannot see you, Adele,
         I feel myself ready to die;
         My life becomes like a candle
         Which has almost burned itself out.
         I cannot then find anything in the world
         Which is able to give me pleasure:
         I could well go down to the river
         And throw myself in so that I might cease to suffer._

         _Tell me if you have a man,
         And I will make an ouanga charm for him;
         I will make him turn into a phantom,
         If you will only take me for your husband.
         I will not go to see you when you are cross:
         Other women are mere trash to me;
         I will make you very happy
         And I will give you a beautiful Madras handkerchief._”

“Thank you, thank you, Sally.”

“It is from _Ozias Midwinter._”

Mrs. Sinquier shuddered.

“Those scandalous topsies that entrap our missionaries!” she said.

“In Oshkosh—”

“Don’t, Mike. The horrors that go on in certain places, I’m sure no one
would believe.”

Miss Sinquier caressed lightly the Canon’s cheek.

“Soothed?” she asked.

“... Fairly.”

“When I think of those coloured coons,” Mrs. Sinquier went on, “at the
Palace fête last year! Roaming all night in the Close.... And when I
went to look out next day there stood an old mulattress holding up the
baker’s boy in the lane.”

“There, Mary!”

“Tired, dear?”

“Sunday’s always a strain.”

“For you, alas! it’s bound to be.”

“There were the Catechetical Classes to-day.”

“Very soon now Sally will learn to relieve you.”

Miss Sinquier threw up her eyes.

“I?” she wondered.

“Next Sunday it’s time you should begin.”

“Between now and _that_,” Miss Sinquier reflected, shortly afterwards,
on her way upstairs, “I shall almost certainly be in town.”

“O London—City of Love!” she warbled softly as she locked her door.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  III


IN the Gazebo at the extremity of the garden, by the new parterre, Miss
Sinquier, in a morning wrapper, was waiting for the post.

Through the trellis chinks, semicircular, showed the Close, with its
plentiful, seasoned timber and sedate, tall houses, a stimulating
sequence, architecturally, of whitewash, stone and brick.

Miss Sinquier stirred impatiently.

Wretch—! to deliver at the Palace before the Deanery, when the Deanery
was as near!

“Shower down over there, Oh Lord, ten thousand fearsome bills,”
extemporaneously she prayed, “and spare them not at all; Amen.”

Hierarchic hands shot upwards.

Dull skies.

She waited.

Through the Palace gates, at length, the fellow lurched, sorting as he
came.

“Dolt!”

Her eyes devoured his bag.

Coiled round and round like some sleek snake her future slumbered in it.

Husband; lovers ... little lives, perhaps—yet to be ... besides voyages,
bouquets, diamonds, chocolates, duels, casinos...!

She shivered.

“Anything for me, Hodge, to-day,” she inquired, “by chance?”

“A fine morning, Miss.”

“Unusually.”

It had come....

That large mauve envelope, with the wild handwriting, and the haunting
scent, was from _her._

As she whisked away her heart throbbed fast. Through the light spring
foliage she could see her father, with folded hands, pacing meditatively
to and fro before the front of the house.

“Humbug!” she murmured, darting down a gravel path towards the
tradesmen’s door.

Regaining her room, she promptly undid the seal.

                             “_Panvale Priory, Shaftesbury Avenue,_
                             “_London, W._

    “Mrs. Albert Bromley presents her compliments to Miss S.
    Sinquier and will be pleased to offer her her experience and
    advice on Thursday morning next at the hour Miss Sinquier names.

    “P.S. Mrs. Bromley already feels a parent’s sympathetic interest
    in Miss Sinquier. Is she dark or fair...? Does she shape for
    Lady Macbeth or is she a Lady Teazle?”

“Both!” Miss Sinquier gurgled, turning a deft somersault before the
glass.

To keep the appointment, without being rushed, she would be obliged to
set out, essentially baggageless, to-night—a few requisites merely,
looped together and concealed beneath her dress, would be the utmost she
could manage.

“A lump here and a lump there!” she breathed, “and I can unburden myself
in the train.”

“Okh!”

She peeped within her purse.

... And there was Godmother’s chain that she would sell!

It should bring grist; perhaps close on a thousand pounds. Misericordia:
to be compelled to part with it!

Opening a levant-covered box, she drew out a long flat tray.

Adorable pearls.

How clearly now they brought her Godmother to mind ... a little old body
... with improbable cherry-cheeks, and excrescent upper lip, with always
the miniatures of her three deceased husbands clinging about one arm....
‘Aren’t they pleasant?’ she would say proudly every now and then....
What talks they had had; and sometimes of an evening through the mauve
moonlight they would strut together.

Ah! She had been almost ugly then; clumsy, gawky, _gauche._...

Now that she was leaving Applethorp, for ever perhaps, how dormant
impressions revived!

The Saunders’ Fifeshire bull, one New Year’s night, ravaging the Close,
driven frantic by the pealings of the bells. The time poor Dixon got
drowned—at a Flower Show, a curate’s eyes—a German governess’s walk—a
mould of calves-foot-jelly she had let fall in the Cathedral once, on
her way somewhere—

She replaced ruefully her pearls.

What else?

Her artist fingers hovered.

Mere bridesmaid’s rubbish; such frightful frippery.

She turned her thoughts to the room.

Over the bed, an antique Bush-knife of barbaric shape supposed to have
been _Abraham’s_, was quite a collector’s piece.

It might be offered to some museum perhaps. The Nation ought to have
it....

She sighed shortly.

And downstairs in the butler’s room there were possessions of hers,
besides. What of those Apostle spoons, and the two-pronged forks, and
the chased tureen?

Leonard frequently had said it took the best part of a day to polish her
plate alone.

And to go away and leave it all!

“Oh God, help me, Dear,” she prayed. “This little once, Oh Lord! For
Thou knowest my rights....”

She waited.

Why did not an angel with a basket of silver appear?

“Oh, well....”

Gripper, no doubt, would suspect something odd if she asked for her
things “to play with” for an hour....

A more satisfactory scheme would be to swoop into the pantry, on her way
to the station, and to take them away for herself.

She had only to say: “Make haste with them crevets,” for Gripper to go
off in a huff, and Leonard, should he be there, would be almost sure to
follow.

Men were so touchy.

Hush.

Her mother’s voice came drifting from below.

“Kate! Kate! Kate! Kate!”

She listened.

“Have the chintz curtains in the white room folded,” she could hear her
say, “and remember what I said about the carpet....”

Dear soul!

Miss Sinquier sniffed.

Was it a tear.

Dear soul! Dear souls...!

“Never mind,” she murmured, “they shall have _sofas_ in their box on the
night of my début....”

She consoled herself with the thought.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   IV


“MAKE haste now with them crevets!”

“For shame, Miss. I shall go straight to the Dean!”

“Cr-r-r-evets!” Miss Sinquier called.

Clad in full black, with a dark felt _chapeau de resistance_ and a long
Lancastrian shawl, she felt herself no mean match for any man.

“C-r-r-r,” she growled, throwing back her shawl.

After all, were not the things her own?

She laughed gaily.

“If dear Mrs. Bromley could see me,” she beamed, tucking dexterously
away an apostolic spoon.

            “‘St. Matthew—St. Mark—St. Luke—St. John—
            _These_ sprang into bed with their breeches on.’”

At a friendly frolic once, a Candidate for Orders had waltzed her about
to that.

She recalled Fräulein’s erudite query still:

“Pray, why did they not take off all like the others?”

And the young man’s significant reasons and elaborate suppositions, and
Fräulein’s creamy tone as she said she _quite_ understood.

Miss Sinquier turned a key.

S-s-s-st!

“Butter fingers.”

In a moment she must run.

Terrible to forgo her great tureen....

She poked it. What magnitude to be sure!

Impossible to tow it along.

Under the circumstances, why not take something less cumbersome instead?

There were the Caroline sauce-boats, or the best Anne teapot, hardly, if
ever, in use.

Her ideas raced on.

And who could resist those gorgeous grapes, for the train?

Together with their dish....

“Tudor, ‘Harry’!” she breathed.

From the corridor came a hum of voices.

Flinging her wrap about her, Miss Sinquier slipped quietly out by way of
a small room, where the Canon preserved his lawn.

Outside, the moon was already up—a full moon, high and white, a wisp of
cloud stretched across it like a blindfold face.

Oh Fame, dear!

She put up her face.

Across the garden the Cathedral loomed out of a mist as white as milk.

“The damp,” she reasoned, “alone, would justify her flight.”

She shivered.

How sombre it looked in the lane.

There were roughs there frequently, too.

“Villains....”

She felt fearfully her pearls.

After all, the initial step in any career was usually reckoned the
worst.

Some day, at the King’s, or the Canary, or the Olive, in the warmth of a
stage dressing-room, she would be amused, perhaps, and say:

“I left my father’s roof, Sir, one sweet spring night—without so much as
a word!”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   V


RAINDROPS were falling although the sky was visibly brightening as Miss
Sinquier, tired, and a little uncertain, passed through the main exit of
Euston terminus.

She wavered a moment upon the curb.

On a hoarding, as if to welcome her, a dramatic poster of Fan Fisher
unexpectedly warmed her heart; it was almost like being met....

There stood Fan, at concert pitch, as Masha Olgaruski in _The Spy._

Miss Sinquier tingled.

A thing like that was enough to give one wings for a week.

She set off briskly, already largely braced.

Before meeting Mrs. Bromley on the morrow much would have to be done.

There was the difficulty of lodgement to consider.

Whenever she had been in the metropolis before she had stayed at
_Millars_ in Eric Street, overlooking Percy Place; because Mr. Millar
had formerly been employed at the Deanery, and had, moreover, married
their cook....

But before going anywhere she must acquire a trunk.

Even Church dignitaries had been known to be refused accommodation on
arriving at a strange hotel with nothing but themselves.

She threw a glance upwards towards a clock.

It was early yet!

All the wonderful day stretched before her, and in the evening she would
take a ticket perhaps for some light vaudeville or new revue.

She studied the pleasure announcements on the motor-buses as they swayed
along.

Stella Starcross—The Lady from the Sea—This evening, Betty Buttermilk
and Co.—Rose Tournesol—Mr. and Mrs. Mary’s Season: The Carmelite—The
Shop Boy—Clemenza di Tito. To-night!

Miss Sinquier blinked.

Meanwhile the family teapot was becoming a bore.

Until the shops should open up it might be well to take a taxi and rest
in the Park for an hour.

The weather was clearing fast; the day showed signs of heat.

She hailed a passing cab.

“Hyde Park,” she murmured, climbing slowly in.

She thrilled.

Upon the floor and over the cushions of the cab was sprinkled fresh
confetti—turquoise, pink and violet, gold and green.

She took up some.

As a mascot, she reflected, it would be equivalent to a cinqfoil of
clover, or a tuft of edelweiss, or a twist of hangman’s rope.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   VI


FROM the big hotel in the vicinity of the Marble Arch, to the consulting
rooms in Shaftesbury Avenue of Mrs. Albert Bromley, it appeared, on
inquiry, that the distance might easily be accomplished in less than
forty minutes.

Miss Sinquier, nevertheless, decided to allow herself more.

Garmented charmingly in a cornflower-blue frock with a black gauze
turban trimmed with a forest of tinted leaves, she lingered uplifted by
her appearance before the glass.

The sober turban, no doubt, would suggest to Mrs. Bromley, Macbeth—the
forest-scene, and the blue, she murmured, “might be anything.”

It occurred to her as she left her room that Mr. Bromley might quite
conceivably be there to assist his wife.

“Odious if he is,” she decided, passing gaily out into the street.

It was just the morning for a walk. A pale silvery light spread over
Oxford Street, while above the shop fronts, the sun flashed down upon a
sea of brass-tipped masts, from whence trade flags trembled in a vagrant
breeze. Rejoicing in her independence, and in the exhilarating
brightness of the day, Miss Sinquier sailed along. The ordeal of a first
meeting with a distinguished dramatic expert diminished at every step.
She could conjecture with assurance, almost, upon their ultimate, mutual
understanding. But before expressing any opinion, Mrs. Bromley, no
doubt, would require to test her voice; perhaps, also, expect her to
dance and declaim.

Miss Sinquier thrust out her lips.

“Not before Albert! Or, at any rate not yet....” she muttered.

She wondered what she knew.

There was the thing from _Rizzio._ The Mistress of the Robes’ lament
upon her vanished youth, on discovering a mirror unexpectedly, one
morning, at Holyrood, outside Queen Mary’s door.

Diamond, Lady Drummond, bearing the Queen a cap, raps, smiles, listens
... smiles, raps again, puts out her leg and rustles ... giggles,
ventures to drop a ring, effusive facial play and sundry tentative
noises, when catching sight of her reflection, she starts back with:

“O! obnoxious old age. O! hideous horror. O! youthful years all gone. O!
childhood spent. Decrepitude at hand.... Infirmities drawing near....”

Interrupted by Mary’s hearty laugh.

“Yes,” Miss Sinquier decided, crossing into Regent Street, “should Mrs.
Bromley bid me declaim, I’ll do Diamond.”

Her eyes brightened.

How prettily the street swerved.

As a rule, great thoroughfares were free from tricks.

She sauntered.

“A picture-palace.”

And just beyond were the playhouses themselves.

Theatreland!

Shaftesbury Avenue with its slightly foreign aspect stretched before
her.

With a springing foot she turned up it.

Oh, those fragile glass façades with the players’ names suspended!

There was the new Merrymount Theatre with its roguish Amorini supporting
torches and smiling down over gay flower-boxes on to the passers-by.

And beyond, where the burgeoning trees began must be Panvale Priory
itself.

Miss Sinquier surveyed it.

It looked to be public offices....

On the mat, dressed in a violet riband, with its paw in the air, lay a
great sly, black, joyous cat.

“Toms!”

She scratched it.

Could it be Mrs. Bromley’s?

In the threshold, here and there, were small brass plates, that brought
to mind somehow memorial tablets to departed virtue at home.

Miss Sinquier studied the inscriptions.

Ah, there showed hers!

“M-m-m!” she murmured, commencing to climb.

Under the skylight a caged bird was singing shrilly.

As much to listen, as to brush something to her cheeks, Miss Sinquier
paused.

If a microscopic mirror could be relied upon she had seldom looked so
well.

Scrambling up the remaining stairs with alacrity, she knocked.

A maid with her head wreathed in curl-papers answered the door,
surveying the visitor first through a muslin blind.

Miss Sinquier pulled out a card.

“Is Mrs. Bromley in?” she asked.

The woman gazed at her feet.

“Mrs. Bromley’s gone!” she replied.

“I suppose she won’t be long?”

“She’s in Elysium.”

“At the——?”

“Poor Mrs. Bromley’s dead.”

“Mrs. Bromley _dead._..?”

“Poor Mrs. Bromley died last night.”

Miss Sinquier staggered.

“Impossible!”

“Perhaps you’d care to come in and sit down?”

Miss Sinquier hesitated.

“No, no, not if ... _is_? Oh!” she stammered.

“She was taken quite of a sudden.”

“One can hardly yet believe it!”

“She’ll be a loss to her world, alas, poor Betty Bromley will.”

Miss Sinquier swallowed.

“I should like to attend the funeral,” she said.

“There’s no funeral.”

“No funeral?”

“No invitations, that is.”

Miss Sinquier turned away.

The very ground under her seemed to slide....

Mrs. Bromley dead!

Why, the ink of her friendly note seemed scarcely dry!

On the pavement once more she halted to collect herself.

Who was there left at all?

At Croydon, there was a conservatoire, of course—

She felt a little guilty at the rapidity of the idea.

Woolgathering, she breasted the traffic in St. Martin’s Lane.

She would turn the situation over presently more easily in the Park.

Instinctively, she stopped to examine a portrait of Yvonde Yalta in the
open vestibule of the Dream.

She devoured it: Really...? Really? She resembled more some Girton guy
than a great coquette.

All down the street indeed, at the theatre doors, were studies of
artists, scenes from current plays.

By the time she found herself back in Piccadilly Circus again Miss
Sinquier was nearly fainting from inanition.

She peered around.

In Regent Street, she reflected, almost certainly, there must be some
nice tea-shop, some cool creamery....

How did this do?

“The Café Royal!”

Miss Sinquier fluttered in.

By the door, the tables all proved to be taken.

Such a noise!

Everyone seemed to be chattering, smoking, lunching, casting dice, or
playing dominoes.

She advanced slowly through a veil of opal mist, feeling her way from
side to side with her parasol.

It was like penetrating deeper and deeper into a bath.

She put out her hand in a swimming, groping gesture, twirling as she did
so, accidentally, an old gentleman’s moustache.

Thank heaven! There, by that pillar, was a vacant place.

She sank down on to the edge of a crowded couch, as in a dream.

The tall mirrors that graced the walls told her she was tired.

“Bring me some China tea,” she murmured to a passing waiter, “and a bun
with currants in it.”

She leaned back.

The realization of her absolute loneliness overcame her suddenly.

Poor Mrs. Bromley, poor kindly little soul!

The tears sprang to her eyes.

It would have been a relief to have blotted her face against some
neighbouring blouse or waistcoat and to have had a hearty cry.

“Excuse me, may I ask you to be so good——”

Just before her on the table was a stand for matches.

With a mournful glance she slid the apparatus from her in the direction
of an adolescent of a sympathetic, somewhat sentimental, appearance,
who, despite emphatic whiskers, had the air of a wildly pretty girl.

To have cherished such an one as a brother! Miss Sinquier reflected, as
the waiter brought her tea.

While consuming it, she studied the young man’s chiselled profile from
the corners of her eyes.

Supporting his chin upon the crook of a cane, he was listening, as if
enthralled, to a large florid man, who, the centre of a small, rapt
group, was relating in a high-pitched, musical voice, how “Poor dear
Chaliapin one day had asked for Kvass and was given Bass. And that
reminds me,” the speaker said, giving the table an impressive thump, “of
the time when Anna Held—let go.”

Miss Sinquier glowed.

Here were stage folk, artists, singers ... that white, thin girl in the
shaggy hat opposite was without doubt a temperament akin.

She felt drawn to speak.

“Can you tell me how I should go to Croydon?” she asked.

The words came slowly, sadly almost....

“To Croydon?”

“You can’t go to Croydon.”

“Why not?”

The young man of the whiskers looked amused.

“When we all go to Spain to visit Velasquez——”

“Goya——!”

“Velasquez!”

“Goya! Goya! Goya!”

“... We’ll set you on your way.”

“Goose!”

“One goes to Croydon best by Underground,” the pale-looking girl
remarked.

Miss Sinquier winced.

“Underground!”

Her lip quivered.

“Is there anything the matter?”

“Only——”

Folding her arms upon the table she sank despairingly forward and burst
into tears.

“Poor Mrs. Bromley!” she sobbed.

“In the name of _Fortune._...” The pale young woman wondered.

“What has Serephine said? What has Mrs. Sixsmith done?”

“Monstrous tease!”

The stout man wagged a finger.

“Wicked!” he commented.

The lady addressed kindled.

“I merely advised her to go Underground. By tube.”

“Oh God,” Miss Sinquier shook.

“It’s hysteria. Poor thing, you can see she’s overwrought.”

“Give her a _fine;_ _un bon petit cognac._”

“Waiter!”

“Garçon.”

“Never mind, Precious,” the fat man crooned. “You shall ride in a comfy
taxi-cab with me.”

“No; indeed she shan’t,” Mrs. Sixsmith snapped. “You may rely on me,
Ernest, for that!”

Rejecting the proffered spirits with a gesture, Miss Sinquier controlled
her grief.

“It’s not _often_ I’m so silly,” she said.

“There, there!”

“Excuse this exhibition....”

Mrs. Sixsmith squeezed her hand.

“My poor child,” she said, “I fear you’ve had a shock.”

“It’s over now.”

“I’m so glad.”

“You’ve been very good.”

“Not at all. You interest me.”

“Why?”

“Why? Why?... I’m sure I can’t say _why_! But directly I saw you....”

“It’s simply wonderful.”

“You marched in here for all the world like some great coquette.”

“You mean the Father Christmas at the door?”

“Tell me what had happened.”

In a few words Miss Sinquier recounted her tale.

“My dear,” Mrs. Sixsmith said, “I shouldn’t think of it again. I expect
this Mrs. Bromley was nothing but an old procuress.”

“A procuress?”

“A stage procuress.”

“How dreadful it sounds.”

“Have you no artistic connections in town _at all_?”

“Not really....”

“Then here, close at hand ... sitting with you and me,” she informally
presented, “Is Mr. Ernest Stubbs, whose wild wanderings in the Gog-magog
hills in sight of Cambridge, orchestrally described, recently thrilled
us all. Next to him—tuning his locks and twisting his cane—you’ll notice
Mr. Harold Weathercock, an exponent of calf-love parts at the Dream.
And, beyond, blackening her nose with a cigarette, sprawls the most
resigned of women—Miss Whipsina Peters, a daughter of the famous
flagelist—and a coryphée herself.”

Miss Peters nodded listlessly.

“Toodle-doo,” she murmured.

“As a coryphée, I suppose her diamonds are a sight?”

“A sight!” Mrs. Sixsmith closed her eyes. “They’re all laid up in
lavender, I fear.”

“In lavender?”

“Pledged.”

“Oh, poor soul.”

“Just now you spoke of a necklace of your own ... a pearl rope, or
something, that you wish to sell.”

“Unhappily I’m obliged.”

“I’ve a notion I might be of service in the matter.”

“How?”

“Through an old banker-friend of mine—Sir Oliver Dawtry. Down Hatton
Garden way and throughout the City he has enormous interests. And I
should say _he_ could place your pearls—if anyone could!”

“Do you think he’d be bothered?”

“That I’ll undertake.”

“Does he live in town?”

“In a sense: he has a large house in the Poultry.”

“Of course I should be willing to show him my pearls.”

“Sir Oliver is offering me a little dinner to-night. And I should be
happy for you to join us.”

“Oh?... I think I scarcely dare!”

“Rubbish. One must be bolder than that if one means to get on!”

“Tell me where you dine.”

“At Angrezini’s. It’s a little restaurant ... with a nigger band. And
you sing between the courses.”

“Will Mr. Sixsmith be there?”

“My dear, Mr. Sixsmith and I don’t live together any more.”

“Forgive me.”

“That’s all right....”

Miss Sinquier’s eyes grew dim.

“Used he to act?” she asked.

“_Act!_”

“I seem to have heard of him.”

Mrs. Sixsmith looked away.

“Are you coming, Serephine?” her neighbour asked.

“Are you all off?”

The florid man nodded impressively.

“Yes ... we’re going now....” he said.

“What are Whipsina’s plans?”

Miss Peters leaned closely forward over several pairs of knees.

“I shall stay where I am,” she murmured, “and perhaps take a nap.
There’s sure to be a tremendous exodus directly.”

Miss Sinquier rose. “I’ve some shopping,” she said, “to do.”

“Until this evening, then.”

“At what o’clock?”

“At 8.”

“On arrival, am I to ask for you?”

“Better ask for Sir Oliver—one never knows.... And I might perhaps
happen to be late.”

“But you won’t be? You mustn’t....”

“I will explain whatever’s needful by telephone to Sir Oliver now. And
during dinner,” Mrs. Sixsmith bubbled, “while the old gentleman picks a
quail, we will see what we can do!”

“How can I express my thanks...?”

“The question of commission,” Mrs. Sixsmith murmured with a slight
smile, “we will discuss more fully later on.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  VII


SUBJECTIVE. On a rack in the loom. Powerless oneself to grasp the
design. Operated on by others. At the mercy of chance fingers, unskilled
fingers, tender fingers; nails of all sorts. Unable to progress alone.
Finding fulfilment through friction and because of friction. Stung into
sentiency gradually, bit by bit—a toe at a time.

After all there was a _zest_ in it; and who should blame the raw
material should an accident occur by the way....

Careless of an intriguing world about her, Miss Sinquier left her hotel,
just so as to arrive at Angrezini’s last.

“For Thou knowest well my safety is in _Thee_,” she murmured to herself
mazily as her taxi skirted the Park.

Having disposed of her Anne teapot for close on seventy pounds, she was
looking more radiant than ever in a frail Byzantine tunic that had cost
her fifty guineas.

“Thy Sally’s safety,” she repeated, absently scanning the Park.

Through the shadowy palings it slipped away, abundantly dotted with
lovers. Some were plighting themselves on little chairs, others
preferred the green ground: and beyond them, behind the whispering
trees, the sky gleamed pale and luminous as church glass.

Glory to have a lover too, she reflected, and to stroll leisurely-united
through the evening streets, between an avenue of sparkling lamps....

Her thoughts turned back to the young man in the Café Royal.

“Of all the bonny loves!” she breathed, as her taxi stopped.

“Angrezini!”

A sturdy negro helped her out.

“For Thou knowest very well——” her lips moved faintly.

The swinging doors whirled her in.

She found herself directly in a small bemirrored room with a hatch on
one side of it, in which an old woman in a voluminous cap was serenely
knitting.

Behind her dangled furs and wraps that scintillated or made pools of
heavy shade as they caught or missed the light.

Relinquishing her own strip of tulle, Miss Sinquier turned about her.

Through a glass door she could make out Mrs. Sixsmith herself, seated in
a cosy red-walled sitting-room beyond.

She was looking staid as a porcelain goddess in a garment of trailing
white with a minute griffin-eared dog peeping out its sheeny paws and
head wakefully from beneath her train.

At sight of her guest Mrs. Sixsmith smiled and rose.

“Sir Oliver hasn’t yet come!” she said, imprinting on Miss Sinquier’s
youthful cheek a salute of _hospitality._

“He hasn’t? And I made sure I should be last.”

Mrs. Sixsmith consulted the time.

“From the Bank to the Poultry, and from the Poultry on...; just
consider,” she calculated, subsiding leisurely with Miss Sinquier upon a
spindle-legged settee.

“You telephoned?”

“I told him all your story.”

“Well?”

“He has promised me to do his utmost.”

“He will?”

“You should have heard us. This Mrs. Bromley, he pretends.... Oh, well
... one must not be too harsh on the dead.”

“Poor little woman.”

“Let me admire your frock.”

“You like it?”

“I never saw anything so waggish.”

“No, no, _please_——!”

“Tell me where they are!”

“What?”

“I’m looking for your pearls.”

“They’re in my hair.”

“Show me.”

“I’ll miss them terribly.”

“Incline!”

“How?”

“More.”

“I can’t!”

“They’re very nice. But bear in mind one thing——”

“Yes?”

Mrs. Sixsmith slipped an encircling arm about Miss Sinquier’s waist.

“Always remember,” she said, “to a City man, twelve hundred sounds less
than a thousand. Just as a year, to you and me, sounds more than
eighteen months!”

“I’ll not forget.”

“Here is Sir Oliver now.”

Through the swing doors an elderly man with a ruddy, rather apoplectic
face, and close-set opaque eyes, precipitantly advanced.

“Ladies!”

“‘Ladies’ indeed, Sir Oliver.”

“As if——”

“Monster.”

“Excuse me, Serephine.”

“Your pardon rests with Miss Sinquier,” Mrs. Sixsmith said with
melodious inflections as she showed the way towards the restaurant.
“Address your petitions to her.”

In the crescent-shaped, cedar-walled, cedar-beamed room, a table at a
confidential angle had been reserved.

“There’s a big gathering here to-night,” Sir Oliver observed, glancing
round him, a “board-room” mask clinging to him still.

Miss Sinquier looked intellectual.

“I find it hot!” she said.

“You do.”

“I find London really very hot.... It’s after the north, I suppose. In
the north it’s always much cooler.”

“Are you from the north?”

“Yes, indeed she is,” Mrs. Sixsmith chimed in. “And so am _I_,” she
said. “Two north-country girls!” she added gaily.

Sir Oliver spread sentimentally his feet.

“The swans at Blenheim; the peacocks at Warwick!” he sighed.

“What do you mean, Sir Oliver?”

“Intimate souvenirs....”

“I should say so.... Swans and peacocks! I wonder you’re prepared to
admit it.”

“Admit it?”

“Outside of _Confessions_, Sir Oliver.”

Miss Sinquier raised a hurried hand to her glass.

“No, no, no, no, no, no wine!” she exclaimed. “Something milky....”

“Fiddlesticks. Our first little dinner.”

“Oh, Sir Oliver.”

“And not, I trust, our last!”

“I enjoy it so much—going out.”

Mrs. Sixsmith slapped her little dog smartly upon the eyes with her fan.

“Couch-toi,” she admonished.

“What can fret her?”

“She fancies she sees Paul.”

“Worthless fellow!” Sir Oliver snapped.

“I was his rib, Sir Oliver.”

“Forget it.”

“I can’t forget it.”

“J-j-j——”

“Only this afternoon I ran right into him—it was just outside the Café
Royal....”

“Scamp.”

“He looked superb. Oh, so smart; spats, speckled trousers, the rest all
deep indigo. Rather Russian.”

“Who?”

“My actor-husband, Paul. There. One has only to speak his name for Juno
to jerk her tail.”

“With whom is he at present?”

“With Sydney Iphis.”

“We went last night to see Mrs. Starcross,” Sir Oliver said.

“She’s no draw.”

“I long to see her,” Miss Sinquier breathed.

“I understand, my dear young lady, you’ve an itch for the footlights
yourself.”

Miss Sinquier began eating crumbs at random.

“God knows!” she declared.

“C’est une âme d’élite, Sir Oliver.”

“You’ve no experience at all?”

“None.”

Sir Oliver refused a dish.

“We old ones ...” he lamented. “Once upon a time, I was in closer touch
with the stage.”

“Even so, Sir Oliver, you still retain your footing.”

“Footing, f-f-f——; among the whole demned lot, who persists still but,
perhaps, the Marys?”

“Take the Marys. A word to them; just think what a boon!”

“Nothing so easy.”

Miss Sinquier clasped her hands.

“One has heard of them often, of course.”

“Mr. and Mrs. Mary have won repute throughout the realm,” Mrs. Sixsmith
impressively said, wondering (as middlewoman) what commission she should
ask.

“Mrs. Mary, I dare say, is no longer what she was!”

“Mrs. Mary, _aujourd’hui_, is a trifle, perhaps, full-blown, but she’s
most magnetic still. And a warmer, quicker heart never beat in any
breast.”

“In her heyday, Sir Oliver—but you wouldn’t have seen her, of course.”

The baronet’s eyes grew extinct.

“In my younger days,” he said, “she was comeliness itself ... full of
fun. I well recall her as the ‘wife’ in _Macbeth;_ I assure you she was
positively roguish.”

“Being fairly on now in years,” Miss Sinquier reflected, “she naturally
wouldn’t fill very juvenile parts—which would be a blessing.”

“She too often does.”

“She used to make Paul ill——” Mrs. Sixsmith began, but stopped
discreetly. “Oh, listen,” she murmured, glancing up towards the nigger
band and insouciantly commencing to hum.

“What is it...?”

“It’s the _Belle of Benares_—

             “‘_My other females all yellow, fair or black,
              To thy charms shall prostrate fall,
              As every kind of elephant does
              To the white elephant Buitenack.
              And thou alone shall have from me,
              Jimminy, Gomminy, whee, whee, whee,
              The Gomminy, Jimminy, whee._’”

“Serephine, you’re eating nothing at all.”

“I shall wait for the patisserie, Sir Oliver.”

“Disgraceful.”

“Father Francis forbids me meat; it’s a little novena he makes me do.”

                “‘_The great Jaw-waw that rules our land,
                 And pearly Indian sea,
                 Has not such_ ab-solute _command
                 As thou hast over me,
                 With a Jimminy, Gomminy, Gomminy,
                 Jimminy, Jimminy, Gomminy, whee._’”

“Apropos of pearls ...” Sir Oliver addressed Miss Sinquier, “I look
forward to the privilege before long of inspecting your own.”

“They’re on her head, Sir Oliver!”

Sir Oliver started as a plate was passed unexpectedly over him from
behind.

“Before approaching some City firm, it’s possible Lady Dawtry might
welcome an opportunity of acquiring this poor child’s jewels for
herself,” Mrs. Sixsmith said.

“Lady Dawtry!”

“Why not?”

“Lady Dawtry seldom wears ornaments; often I wish she would.”

“I wonder you don’t _insist._”

Sir Oliver fetched a sigh.

“Many’s the time,” he said, “I’ve asked her to be a little more
spectacular—but she won’t.”

“How women do vary!” Mrs. Sixsmith covertly smiled.

“To be sure.”

“My poor old friend...?”

Sir Oliver turned away.

“I notice Miss Peters here to-night,” he said.

“Whipsina?”

“With two young men.”

“_Un trio n’excite pas de soupçons_, they say.”

“They do....”

“Have you a programme for presently, Sir Oliver?”

“I’ve a box at the Kehama.”

Miss Sinquier looked tragic.

“It’ll have begun!” she said.

“At a variety, the later the better as a rule.”

“I never like to miss _any_ part.”

“My dear, you’ll miss very little; besides it’s too close to linger over
dinner long.”

“Toc, toc; I don’t find it so,” Sir Oliver demurred.

Mrs. Sixsmith plied her fan.

“I feel very much like sitting _à la_ Chaste Suzanne, in the nearest
ice-pail!” she declared.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  VIII


MARY LODGE, or Maryland, as it was more familiarly known, stood quite at
the end of Gardingore Gate, facing the Park.

Half-way down the row, on the Knightsbridge side, you caught a glimpse
of it set well back in its strip of garden with a curtain of rustling
aspen-trees before the door.

Erected towards the close of the eighteenth century as a retreat for a
fallen minister, it had, on his demise, become the residence of a minor
member of the reigning Royal House, from whose executors, it had, in due
course, passed into the hands of the first histrionic couple in the
land.

A gravel sweep leading between a pair of grotesquely attenuated sphinxes
conducted, via a fountain, to the plain, sober façade in the Grecian
style.

Moving demurely up this approach some few minutes prior to the hour
telegraphically specified by the mistress of the house, Miss Sinquier,
clad in a light summer dress, with a bow like a great gold butterfly
under her chin, pulled the bell of Mary Lodge.

Some day others would be standing at her own front gate, their hearts
a-hammer....

A trim manservant answered the door.

“Is Mrs. Mary...?”

“Please to come this way.”

Miss Sinquier followed him in.

The entrance hall bare but for a porphyry sarcophagus containing
visiting cards, and a few stiff chairs, clung obviously to royal
tradition still.

To right and left of the broad stairway two colossal battle-pictures, by
Uccelli, were narrowly divided by a pedestalled recess in which a
frowning bust of Mrs. Mary as Medusa was enshrined.

Miss Sinquier, following closely, was shown into a compartment whose
windows faced the Park.

“Mrs. Mary has not yet risen from lunch,” the man said as he went away.
“But she won’t be many minutes.”

Selecting herself a chair with a back suited to the occasion, Miss
Sinquier prepared to wait.

It was an irregular planned, rather lofty room, connected by a wide arch
with other rooms beyond. From the painted boiseries hung glowing Eastern
carpets, on which warriors astride fleet-legged fantastic horses were
seen to pursue wild animals, that fled helter-skelter through
transparent thickets of may. A number of fragile French chairs formed a
broken ring about a Louis XVI bed—all fretted, massive pillars of
twisted, gilded wood—converted now to be a seat. Persian and Pesaro
pottery conserving “eternal” grasses, fans of feathers, strange
sea-shells, bits of Blue-John, blocks of malachite, morsels of coral,
images of jade littered the _guéridons_ and _étagères._ A portrait of
Mrs. Mary, by _Watts_, was suspended above the chimney-place, from
whence came the momentous ticking of a clock.

“The old girl’s lair, no doubt!” Miss Sinquier reflected, lifting her
eyes towards a carved mythological ceiling describing the Zodiac and the
Milky Way.

Tongue protruding, face upturned, it was something to mortify her for
ever that Mrs. Mary, entering quietly, should so get her unawares.

“Look on your left.”

“Oh?”

“And you’ll see it; in trine of Mars. The Seventh House. The House of
_Marriage._ The House of Happiness.”

“Oh! Mrs. Mary!”

“You’re fond of astrology?”

“I know very little about the heavenly bodies.”

“Ah! _Don’t_ be too impatient there.”

Miss Sinquier stared.

Mrs. Mary was large and robust, with commanding features and an upright
carriage. She had a Redfern gown of “navy” blue stuff infinitely laced.
One white, long hand, curved and jewelled, clung as if paralysed above
her breast.

Seating herself majestically, with a glance of invitation to Miss
Sinquier to do the same, the eminent actress appraised her visitor
slowly with a cold, dry eye.

“And so you’re his ‘little mouse’...!”

“Whose?”

“Sir Oliver’s ‘second Siddons.’”

“Indeed——”

“Well, and what is your forte?”

“My forte, Mrs. Mary?”

“Comedy? Tragedy?”

“Either. Both come easy.”

“You’ve no bent?”

“So long as the part is good.”

“‘Sarah’! Are you of Jewish stock?—Sarahs sometimes are!”

“Oh dear, no.”

“Tell me something of the home circle. Have you brothers, sisters?”

“Neither.”

“Is your heart free?”

“Quite.”

“The Boards, I believe, are new to you?”

“Absolutely.”

“Kindly stand.”

“I’m five full feet.”

“Say, ‘Abyssinia.’”

“Abyssinia!”

“As I guessed....”

“I was never there.”

“Now say ‘Joan.’”

“Joan!”

“You’re Comedy, my dear. Distinctly! And now sit down.”

Miss Sinquier gasped.

“You know with us it’s Repertoire, I suppose?”

“Of course.”

“In parts such as one would cast Jane Jacks you should score.”

“Is she giving up?”

“Unfortunately she’s obliged. She’s just had another babelet, poor
dear.”

“What were her parts?”

“In _Bashful Miss Bardine_ the governess was one of them.”

“Oh!”

“And in _Lara_, she was the orphan. That part should suit you well,”
Mrs. Mary murmured, rising and taking from a cabinet a bundle of printed
sheets.

“Is it rags?”

“Rags?”

“May she——; is she allowed Evening dress?”

“Never mind about her dress. Let me hear how you’d deliver her lines,”
Mrs. Mary tartly said, placing in Miss Sinquier’s hands a brochure of
the play.

“I should like to know my cue.”

“A twitter of birds is all. You are now in Lord and Lady Lara’s
garden—near Nice. Begin.”

“_How full the hedges are of roses!_”

“Speak up.”

“_How full the hedges are of roses! What perfume to be sure._”

“And don’t do that.”

“The directions are: ‘_she stoops._’”

“Continue!”

“What’s next?”

“A start.”

“_Oh! Sir Harry!_”

“Proceed.”

Miss Sinquier lodged a complaint.

“How can I when I don’t know the plot?”

“What does it matter—the plot?”

“Besides, I feel up to something stronger.”

Mrs. Mary caressed the backs of her books.

“Then take the slave in _Arsinoe_ and I’ll read out the queen.”

“These little legs, Mrs. Mary, would look queerly in tights.”

“Think less of your costume, dear, do; and learn to do what you’re told.
Begin!”

“Arsinoe opens.”

“Arsi——? So she does. You should understand we’re in Egypt, in the halls
of Ptolemy Philadelphus, on the banks of the River Nile. I will begin.

    _Cease.... Cease your song. Arisba! Lotos! THANKS._

    _And for thy pains accept this ivory pin...._

    _Shall it be said in many-gated Thebes_

    _That Arsinoe’s mean?_

    _The desert wind...._

    _Hark to’t!_

    _Methinks ’twill blow all night;_

    _Lashing the lebbek trees anent Great Cheops’ Pyre;_

    _Tracing sombre shadows o’er its stony walls._

    _Within the wombats wail_

    _Tearing the scarabs from Prince Kamphé’s tomb._

    _His end was sudden ... strangely so;_

    _Osiris stalks our land. Kamphé and little Ti (his
    daughter—wife)_

    _Both dead within a week. Ah me, I fear_

    _Some priestly treachery; but see! What crouching shape is
    this?... Peace, fool!_”

    “_I did not speak.... Oh, Queen._”

    “_ENOUGH. Thou weariest me._”

    “_I go!_”

    “_Yet stay! Where is thy Lord?_”

    “_Alas! I do not know._”

    “_Then get ye gone—from hence!_”

    “_I shall obey._”

    “... Wail it!” Mrs. Mary rested.

    “Wail what, Mrs. Mary?”

    “Let me hear that _bey_: O-bey. Sound your menace.”

    “I shall o-bey.”

    “_O beating heart_, Mrs. Mary paced stormily the room,
    _Tumultuous throbbing breast. Alas! how art thou laden?..._”

    She turned.

    “Slave!...”

    “Me, Mrs. Mary?”

    “Come on. Come on.”

    “Slave’s off.”

    “Pst, girl. Then take _the Duke_!”

    “_Fairest_——”

    “_High Horus!... What! Back from Ethiopia and the Nubean Army!
    Is’t indeed Ismenias...?_”

    “_Listen._”

    “_Hast deserted_ Ptolemy?”

    “_Fairest_——”

    “_O Gods of Egypt_——”

“Someone wants you, Mrs. Mary.”

“Wants me?”

“Your chauffeur, I think.”

“The car, M’m,” a servant announced.

“Ah!” she broke off, “An engagement, I fear. But come and see me again.
Come one day to the theatre. Our stage-door is in Sloop Street, an
_impasse_ off the Strand.” And Mrs. Mary, gathering up her skirts,
nodded and withdrew.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   IX


“BLACK her great boots! Not I,” Miss Sinquier said to herself as she
turned her back on Mary Lodge to wend her way westward across the Park.

She was to meet Mrs. Sixsmith at a certain club on Hay Hill towards dusk
to learn whether any tempting offer had been submitted Sir Oliver for
her pearls.

“If I chose I suppose I could keep them,” she murmured incoherently to
herself as she crossed the Row.

It was an airless afternoon.

Under the small formal trees sheltering the path she clapped her
sunshade to, and slackened speed.

The rhododendrons, in vivid clumps of new and subtle colours brushing
the ground, were in their pride. Above, the sky showed purely blue. She
walked on a little way towards Stanhope Gate when, overcome by the
odoriferous fragrance of heliotropes and xenias, she sank serenely to a
bench.

Far off by the Serpentine a woman was preaching from a tree to a small
audience gathered beneath. How primeval she looked as her arms shot out
in argument, a discarded cock’s-feather boa looped to an upper bough
dangling like some dark python in the air above.

Miss Sinquier sat on until the shadows fell.

She found her friend on reaching Hay Hill in the midst of muffins and
tea.

“I gave you up. I thought you lost,” Mrs. Sixsmith exclaimed, hitching
higher her veil with fingers super-manicured, covered in oxydized metal
rings.

“I was dozing in the Park.”

“Dreamy kid.”

“On my back neck I’ve such a freckle.”

“Did you see Mammy Mary?”

“I did.”

“Well?”

“Nothing; she offered me Miss Jacks’ leavings.”

“Not good enough.”

“What of Sir Oliver?”

“I hardly know how to tell you.”

“Has he——?”

Mrs. Sixsmith nodded.

“He has had an offer of two thousand pounds,” she triumphantly said,
“for the pearls alone.”

“Two thousand pounds!”

“Call it three o’s.”

“Okh!”

“Consider what commercial credit that means....”

“I shall play Juliet.”

“Juliet?”

“I shall have a season.”

“Let me take the theatre for you.”

“Is it a dream?”

“I will find you actors—great artists.”

“Oh, God!”

“And, moreover, I have hopes for the silver, too. Sir Oliver is
enchanted with the spoons—the Barnabas spoon especially. He said he had
never seen a finer. Such a beautiful little Barny, such a rapture of a
little sinner as it is, in every way.”

Miss Sinquier’s eyes shone.

“I’ll have that boy.”

“What—what boy?”

“Harold Weathercock.”

“You desire him?”

“To be my Romeo, of course.”

“It depends if the Dream will release him.”

“It must! It shall!”

“I’ll peep in on him and sound him, if you like.”

“We’ll go together.”

“Very well.”

“Do you know where he lives?”

“In Foreign-Colony Street. He and a friend of his, Noel Nice, share a
studio there. Not to paint in, alas! It’s to wash.”

“What?”

“They’ve made a little laundry of it. And when they’re not acting
actually, they wash. Oh! sometimes when Mr. Nice spits across his iron
and says Pah! it makes one ill.”

“Have they any connection?”

Mrs. Sixsmith bent her eyes to her dress.

“Mr. Sixsmith often sent them things ... little things,” she said. “His
linen was his pride. You might annex him, perhaps. He’s played Mercutio
before.”

“Is he handsome?”

“Paul? He’s more interesting than handsome. _Unusual_, if you know....”

“What _did_ you do to separate?”

“I believe I bit him.”

“You did!”

“He ran at me with the fire-dogs first.”

“I suppose you annoyed him?”

“The cur!”

“Something tells me you’re fond of him still.”

From her reticule Mrs. Sixsmith took a small note-book and made an entry
therein.

“... The divine Shakespeare!” she sighed.

“I mean to make a hit with him.”

“Listen to me.”

“Well?”

“My advice to you is, hire a playhouse—the Cobbler’s End, for
example—for three round months at a reasonable rent, with a right,
should you wish, to sub-let.”

“It’s so far off.”

“Define ‘far off.’”

“Blackfriars Bridge.”

“I’ve no doubt by paying a fortune you could find a more central
position if you care to wait. The Bolivar Theatre, possibly——; or the
Cone.... At the Cone, there’s a joy-plank from the auditorium to the
stage, so that, should you want to ever, you can come right out into the
stalls.”

“I want my season at once,” Miss Sinquier said.

Mrs. Sixsmith toyed with her rings.

“What do you say,” she asked, “to making an informal début (before
‘royal’ auspices!) at the Esmé Fisher ‘Farewell’ coming off next week?”

“Why not!”

“Some of the stage’s brightest ornaments have consented to appear.”

“I’d like particulars.”

“I’ll send a note to the secretary, Miss Willinghorse, straight away,”
Mrs. Sixsmith murmured, gathering up her constant Juno beneath her arm,
and looking about her for some ink.

“Send it later, from the Café Royal.”

“I can’t go any more to the Café Royal,” Mrs. Sixsmith said. “I owe
money there.... To all the waiters.”

“Wait till after we’ve seen the Washingtons.”

“The Washingtons? Who are they?”

“Don’t you know?”

“Besides, I’ve a small headache,” Mrs. Sixsmith said, selecting herself
a quill.

“What can I do to relieve it?” Miss Sinquier wondered, taking up a
newspaper as her friend commenced to write.

Heading the agony list some initials caught her eye.

“_S——h S——r._ Come back. All shall be forgiven,” she read.

“I can’t epistolize while you make those _unearthly_ noises,” Mrs.
Sixsmith complained.

“I didn’t mean to.”

“Where are we going to dine?”

“Where is there wonderful to go?”

“How about a grill?”

“I don’t mind.”

“The Piccadilly? We’re both about got up for it.”

Miss Sinquier rolled her eyes.

“The Grill-room at the Piccadilly isn’t going to cure a headache,” she
remarked.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   X


TO watch Diana rise blurred above a damp chemise from a fifth-floor
laundry garden in Foreign-Colony Street, Soho, had brought all Chelsea
(and part of Paris) to study illusive atmospherical effects from the
dizzy drying-ground of those versatile young men, Harold Weathercock and
Noel Nice.

Like a necropolis at the Resurrection, or some moody vision of Blake,
would it appear under the evanescent rays of the moon.

Nighties, as evening fell, would go off into proud Praxiteles—torsos of
Nymphs or Muses: pants and ready-mades, at a hint of air would pirouette
and execute a phantom ballet from Don John.

Beyond the clothes lines was a Pagoda, set up in an extravagant mood,
containing a gilded Buddha—a thorn and a symbol of unrighteousness to a
convent of Ursulines whose recreation yard was underneath.

Here, at a certain hour when the Mother Superior was wont to walk round
and round her preserves, a young, bewhiskered man frequently would come
bearing ceremonial offerings of rice or linen newly washed, and falling
flat before the shrine would roll himself about and beat the ground as
if in mortal anguish of his sins before her fascinated eye. Here, too,
from time to time, festivities would take place—sauteries (to a
piano-organ), or convivial _petits soupers_ after the play.

An iron ladder connected the roof with the work and living-rooms below.

Ascending this by the light of the stars, Mrs. Sixsmith and the _New
Juliet_, gay from a certain grill, audaciously advanced, their playful
screams rendered inaudible by the sounds of a tricksome waltz wafted
down to them from the piano-organ above.

Items of linen nestling close to a line overhead showed palely against
the night like roosting doves.

“Help.... Oh! she’s falling,” Mrs. Sixsmith screamed. “Are you there,
Mr. Nice?”

“Give me your hand,” Miss Sinquier begged.

“Should she rick her spine....”

“Whew-ps!” Miss Sinquier exclaimed, scrambling to the top.

London, beyond the frail filigree cross on the Ursulines’ bleached wall,
blazed with light. From the Old Boar and Castle over the way came a
perfect flood of it. And all along the curved river-line from
Westminster to St. Paul’s glittered lamps, lamps, lamps.

Folding an arm about her friend’s “wasp” waist, Mrs. Sixsmith whirled
her deftly round to a wild street air:

                         “_I like your ways,
                          I like your style,
                          You are my darling_——”

she hummed as the organ stopped.

“Come to finish the evening?”

A small, thick-set, grizzled man with dark æsthetic eyes and a pinkish
nose, the result maybe of continuously tinting it for music-hall
purposes, addressed the breathless ladies in a broad, inquiring voice.

“Is that _you_, Mr. Smee?” Mrs. Sixsmith asked, surprised.

“Call me ‘Shawn.’”

“We’ve only come on business.”

“Don’t! You make me laf.”

“Then—do it,” Mrs. Sixsmith serenely said, resting her left knee against
an empty keg of beer.

“They’re not back from the theatre yet.”

“Turn for us till they come.”

Mr. Smee dashed from a crimpled brow a wisp of drooping hair.

“By your leave, ladies,” he said, “I’ll just slip across to the Old Boar
and Castle and sample a snack at the bar.”

“Don’t run off, Mr. Smee. You really mustn’t. On tiles, they say, one
usually meets with _cats._”

“Oh, my word.”

Mrs. Sixsmith placed a hand to her hip in the style of an early John.

“How long is it—say—since we met?” she inquired. “Not since my wedding,
I do believe.”

“What’s become of those kiddy bridesmaids you had?” Mr. Smee warily
asked.

“Gerty Gale and Joy Patterson?—I’m sure I don’t know.”

“Oh, my word.”

“Well, how goes the world with _you_, Mr. Smee?”

“So-so. I’ve been away on tour. Mildred Milson and Co. Oh! my Lord—it
was. No sooner did we get to Buxton—down in Derbyshire—than Miss Milson
fell sick and had to be left behind.”

“What was wrong with her?”

“Exposure.... On Bank Holiday some of the company hired a three-horse
char-à-banc and drove from Buxton over to Castleton Caves—my hat. What
hills!—and from there we went to take a squint at Chatsworth, where Miss
Milson came over queer.”

“And how does Mrs. Smee?”

“So-so.”

“One never sees her now.”

“There she sits all day, reading Russian novels. Talk of gloom!”

“Really?”

“Oh, it is!”

“Well.... I’m fond of thoughtful, theosophical reading, too, Mr. Smee,”
Mrs. Sixsmith said. “Madame Blavatsky and Mrs. Annie Besant are both
favourites with me.”

Mr. Smee jerked an eloquent thumb.

“Who have you brought along?”

“She’s a special pal of mine.”

“Married?”

“Mon Dieu,” Mrs. Sixsmith doubtfully said. “Je _crois_ que c’est une
Pucelle.”

“Never!” Mr. Smee, completely mystified, hazarded.

“Fie donc. Comme c’est _méchant._”

“Wee, wee.”

Mrs. Sixsmith tittered.

“She’s going into management very soon.”

“Swank?”

“We seek a Romeo, Mr. Smee.”

“Now, now...!”

“Don’t look like that, Mr. Smee—nobody’s asking you,” Mrs. Sixsmith
murmured.

Mr. Smee scratched reflectively his head.

“Who is it you’re after?” he asked.

“We fancied Mr. Weathercock might suit.”

“God has given him looks, but no brains,” Mr. Smee emphatically
declared. “No more brains than a cow in a field.”

“His is indeed a charming face,” Mrs. Sixsmith sighed. “And as to his
brains, Mr. Smee—why, come!”

“Who’s to create the countess?” he asked.

“Lady Capulet? It’s not determined yet.”

“Why not canvass the wife?”

“Has she been in Shakespeare before?”

“From the time she could toddle; in a _Midsummer Night’s Dream_, when
not quite two, she was the Bug with gilded wings.”

“Pet!”

“Sure....”

Mrs. Sixsmith clasped prayerfully her hands.

“And in Mr. Smee,” she said, “I see the makings of a fine Friar
Lawrence!”

“How’s that?”

“With a few choice _concetti._”

“Faith!”

“I see the lonely cell, the chianti-flask, the crucifix....”

“Gosh!”

“I see Verona ... the torrid sky ... the town ascending, up, up, up. I
hear the panting nurse. She knocks. Your priest’s eyes glisten. She
enters, blouse-a-gape—a thorough coster. You raise your cowl....
Chianti? She shakes her head. Benedictine? No! no! A little Chartreuse,
then? Certainly not! Nothing.... You squeeze her waist. Her cries ‘go
through’ Lady Capulet and her daughter in the distant city on their way
to mass. Romeo enters. So!” Mrs. Sixsmith broke off as Mr. Weathercock
and a curly-headed lad, followed by a swathed woman and a whey-faced
child, showed themselves upon the stairs.

Mrs. Sixsmith sought Miss Sinquier’s arm.

“Listen to me, my darling!” she said.

“Well?”

“Write.”

“What?”

“Write.”

“Why?”

“Because I fear we intrude.”

“Intrude?” Harold Weathercock exclaimed, coming up. “I assure you it’s a
treat....”

Mrs. Sixsmith threw a sidelong, intriguing glance across her shoulder.

“Who’s the cure in plaits?” she demanded.

“It’s Little May Mant—she’s seeing her sister home.”

“Oh!... Is that Ita?” Mrs. Sixsmith murmured, stepping forward to
embrace Miss “Ita Iris” of the Dream.

Miss Sinquier swooped.

“I’m having a season,” she, without further preamble, began. “And I want
to persuade you to join....”

“Principal?”

“Yes.”

“I should like to play for you,” Mr. Weathercock said.

“Harold!”

Miss Mant addressed him softly.

“Well?”

“Honey husband....”

“Hook it!”

“Give me a cigarette.”

“Mary!” her sister called.

“Quick! ’cos of Ita.”

“Mary Mant.”

Miss Mant tossed disdainfully an ultra large and “pasty”-faced head.

“Why must you insult me, Ita?” she bitterly asked. “You _know_ I’m Miss
Iris.”

“I know you’re Miss Mant.”

“No, I’m not.”

“Yes, you are.”

“No, I’m _not._”

“I tell you, you are!”

“Liar!”

“M-A-N-T!”

“Oh, stow it,” Mr. Smee said. “Put it by.”

“I’m Réné Iris.”

“Réné Rats.”

Mrs. Sixsmith looked detached.

“Is that a wash-tub?” she asked.

“Certainly.”

“What’s that odd thing floating, like the ghost of a child unborn?”

“It belongs to Mrs. Mary.”

“There’s a rumour—she refuses a fortune to show herself in Revue.”

“With her hearse-horse tread....”

“Sh——. Harold worships her.”

“Oh, no.”

“He sees things in her that we don’t, perhaps.”

“To some ideas,” Mrs. Sixsmith said, “I suppose she’s very blooming
still....”

“If it wasn’t for her figure, which is really a disgrace.”

Miss Iris smiled.

She had a tired mouth, contrasting vividly with the artificial freshness
of her teeth.

“When I reach my zenith,” she declared, “it’s Farewell.”

“Shall you assist at poor Esmé Fisher’s?”

“A couple of songs—that’s all.”

Mrs. Sixsmith looked away.

“Naturally,” Miss Sinquier was saying, “one can’t expect instantly to be
a draw. More than—perhaps—just a little!”

“With a man who understands in the Box Office....”

“Someone with a big nose and a strong will, eh?”

Mr. Nice lifted a rusty iron and wiped it across his leg.

“In my opinion,” he said, “to associate oneself with a sanctified
classic is a huge mistake. And why start a season on the tragic tack?”

“Because——”

“Suppose it’s a frost?”

“Oh!”

“Suppose your venture fails. Suppose the thing’s a drizzle.”

“What then?”

“There’s a light comedy of mine that should suit you.”

“Of yours!”

“Appelled _Sweet Maggie Maguire._”

“Tell me why she was sweet, Mr. Nice,” Mrs. Sixsmith begged.

“Why she was sweet? I really don’t know.”

“Was she sentimental...?”

“She was an invalid. A bed-ridden beauty ... and, of course, the hero’s
a Doctor.”

“Oh! my word!”

“Is there anyone at home?” A tired voice came thrilling up from below.

“Who comes?”

Mrs. Sixsmith started.

“It sounds to me like my husband,” she said, with an involuntary nervous
movement of the hands.

“I forgot,” Mr. Weathercock said. “He mentioned he might blow in.”

“Oh!”

“I’d take to my heels!” Miss Iris advised.

Mrs. Sixsmith stood transfixed.

The moonlight fell full on her, making her features look drawn and
haggard.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   XI


LIKE wildfire the rumour ran. The King had knighted—he had knighted—by
what accident?—Mr. Mary, in lieu of Mr. Fisher, at Mr. Fisher’s own
farewell. In the annals of the stage such an occurrence was unheard of,
unique.

The excitement in the green-room was intense.

“M-m! He is not de first to zell is birs-r-rite for a mess of porridge!”
Yvonde Yalta, the playgoers’ darling, remarked as she poised with an
extravagant play of arms, a black glittering bandeau on her short flaxen
hair.

“A mess of pottage!” someone near her said.

“You correct me? Ah, sanx! I am so grateful, so—_so_ grateful,” the
charming creature murmured as she sailed away.

From the auditorium came a suppressed titter.

The curtain had risen some few minutes since on Mlle. Fanfette and
Monsieur Coquelet de Chaussepierre of the Théâtre Sans Rancune in the
comedietta, _Sydney, or There’s No Resisting Him._

“It’s extraordinary I’ve never seen a man knighted,” a show-girl
twittered, “and I’ve seen a good deal....”

“How do they do them?”

“Like this,” a sparkling brunette answered, bestowing a sly pat on the
interlocutress with the back of a brush.

“Of all the common——!”

“Ladies! Ladies!”

“Who was in front at the time?”

“I was!” Mrs. Sixsmith said, who had just peeped in to exchange a few
words with her friend.

“You were?”

“I was selling sweets in the vestibule and saw it all. Really! If I live
to be an old woman I shan’t forget it. Mr. Mary—_Sir Maurice_—was in the
lobby chatting with Sylvester Fry of the _Dispatch_, when the Royal
party arrived. The King instantly noticed him and sent one of his suite,
quite unpremeditatedly, it seemed, to summon him, and in a trice ... Oh!
... and I _never_ saw the Queen look so charming. She has a gold dress
turning to white through the most exquisite gradations....”

Mrs. Sixsmith was overcome.

“A-wheel,” Miss Sinquier’s dresser disrespectfully said, “how was the
poor man to tell? Both the blighters—God forgive me—are equally on their
last legs.”

Miss Sinquier shivered.

“Is it a good house?” she inquired.

“Splendid. Outside they’re flying five ‘full’ boards.... There’s not a
single vacant place. Poor Sydney Iphis gave half a guinea for a seat in
the slips.”

“Are you here all alone?”

“I’m with Sir Oliver Dawtry,” Mrs. Sixsmith replied, “except when I’m
running about!... Can I sell anyone anything?” she inquired, raising
sonorously her voice. “Vanilla! Caramel! Chocolate!... Comfits,” she
warbled.

“What have you netted?”

“Eighteenpence only, so far;—from such an angel!”

“Comfits, did you say?” a round-faced, piquant little woman asked.

“Despite disguise! If it isn’t Arthurine Smee!”

The actress displayed astonishment.

Nature had thrown up upon her lip and cheek two big blonde moles that
procured to her physiognomy, somehow or other, an unusual degree of
expression.

“My husband has been waiting to hear from you,” she said, “as agent to
this _Miss Sin——_, the new star with the naughty name, and from all I
could make out I understand it would be likely to be a _Double
Engagement._”

“This is Miss Sinquier,” Mrs. Sixsmith exclaimed.

Miss Sinquier blinked.

“Have you done it much?” she asked.

“Often.”

“Where?”

“Everywhere.”

“For example?”

“I may say I’ve played Pauline and Portia and Puck....”

“Mother-to-Juliet I fear’s the best I’ve to offer.”

Mrs. Smee consulted enigmatically the nearest mole in reach of her
tongue.

“Were I to play her in ‘good’ preservation,” she inquired, “I suppose
there’d be no objection?”

“Why, none!”

“Just a girlish touch....”

“Mrs. Smee defies time,” Mrs. Sixsmith remarked.

“My dear, I once was thought to be a very pretty woman.... All I can do
now is to urge my remains.”

Miss Sinquier raised a forefinger.

Voices shivering in altercation issued loudly from a private
dressing-room next door.

“What’s up?”

“Oh, dear! Oh, dear!” the wardrobe-mistress entering said. “Sir Maurice
and Mr. Fisher are passing sharp words with a couple of pitchforks.”

“What!”

“The ‘Farm-players’ sent them over from the Bolivar for their Pig-sty
scene—and now poor Mr. Mary, _Sir M’riss_, and Mr. Fisher are fighting
it out, and Mrs. Mary, _her ladyship_, has joined the struggle.”

“Murder!” called a voice.

“Glory be to God.”

Mrs. Sixsmith rolled her eyes.

“Da!” she gasped, as Lady Mary, a trifle dazed but decked in smiles,
came bustling in.

“Oh, Men! Men! Men!” she exclaimed, going off into a hearty laugh.
“Rough, angelic brutes...!”

She was radiant.

She had a gown of shot brocade, a high lace ruff and a silver girdle of
old German work, that had an ivory missal falling from it.

“Quarrelsome, quarrelling kings,” she stuttered, drifting towards a
toilet-table—the very one before which Miss Sinquier was making her
face.

On all sides from every lip rose up a chorus of congratulations.

“Viva, Lady Mary!”

Touched, responsive, with a gesture springing immediately from the
heart, the consummate Victorian extended impulsive happy hands.

“God bless you, dears,” she said.

“Three cheers for Lady Mary!”

The illustrious woman quashed a tear.

“Am I white behind?” she asked.

“Allow me, milady,” the wardrobe-mistress wheezed.

“I fancy I heard a rip...!”

“There must have been quite a scrimmage.”

From the orchestra, a melodious throb-thrum-throb told a “curtain.”

“Lady Mary—_you_, Mum,” a call-boy chirped.

“Me?”

“Five minutes.”

Lady Mary showed distress.

“For goodness sake, my dear,” she addressed Miss Sinquier, “do leave
yourself alone. I want the glass.”

But Miss Sinquier seemed engrossed.

At her elbow a slip of a “Joy-baby” was holding forth with animation to
Mrs. Sixsmith and Mrs. Smee.

“That was one of my dreams,” she was saying, “and last night again I had
another—in spite of a night-light, too! It began by a ring formed of
crags and boulders enclosing a troop of deer—oh, such a herd of
them—delicate, distinguished animals with little pom-pom horns, and some
had poodles’ tails. Sitting behind a rhododendron bush was an old
gentleman on a white horse; he never moved a muscle. Suddenly I became
aware of a pack of dogs.... And then, before my very eyes, one of the
dogs transformed itself into a giraffe....”

“You must have been out to supper.”

“It’s true I had. Oh, it was a merry meal.”

“Who gave it?”

“Dore Davis did: to meet her betrothed—Sir Francis Four.”

“What’s he like?”

“Don’t ask me. It makes one tired to look at him.”

“Was it a party?”

“Nothing but literary-people with their Beatrices.... My dear _the
scum_! Half-way through supper, Dore got her revolver out and began
shooting the glass drops off her chandelier.”

“I should like to see her trousseau,” Mrs. Sixsmith sighed.

“It isn’t up to much. Anything good she sells—on account of bailiffs.”

“Pooh! She should treat them all _en reine._”

Mrs. Smee looked wise.

“Always be civil with bailiffs,” she said; “never ruffle them! If you
queen a sheriff’s officer remember there’s no getting rid of him. He
clings on—like a poor relation.”

“Oh, well,” Mrs. Sixsmith replied, “I always treat the worms _en reine_,
not,” she added wittily, “that I ever have....”

Miss Sinquier twirled herself finally about.

“There,” she murmured, “I’m going out into the wings.”

“When’s your call?”

“After Lady Mary.”

For her unofficial first appearance she was resolved to woo the world
with a dance—a dance all fearless somersaults and quivering
_battements;_ a young Hungarian meanwhile recording her movements
sensitively upon a violin.

She was looking well in an obedient little ballet skirt that made action
a delight. Her hair, piled high in a towering toupee, had a white flower
in it.

“Down a step and through an arch,” a pierrette who passed her in the
corridor directed her to the stage.

It was Miss Ita Iris of the Dream.

Miss Sinquier tingled.

How often on the cold flags of the great church at home had she asked
the way before!

“Oh, Lord,” she prayed now, “let me conquer. Let me! Amen.”

She was in the wings.

Above her, stars sparkled lavishly in a darkling sky, controlled by a
bare-armed mechanic who was endeavouring, it seemed, to deliver himself
of a moon; craning from a ladder at the risk of his life, he pushed it
gently with a big soft hand.

Miss Sinquier turned her eyes to the stage.

The round of applause accorded Lady Mary on her entry was gradually
dying away.

From her shelter Miss Sinquier could observe her, in opulent silhouette,
perfectly at her ease.

She stood waiting for the last huzzas to subside with bowed head and
folded hands—like some great sinner—looking reverently up through her
eyelashes at the blue silk hangings of the Royal box.

By degrees all clatter ceased.

Approaching the footlights with a wistful smile, the favourite woman
scanned the stalls.

“Now most of you here this afternoon,” she intimately began, “I will
venture to say, never heard of Judy Jacock. I grant you, certainly,
there’s nothing very singular in that; for her life, which was a
strangely frail one, essentially was obscure. Judy herself was
_obscure._... And so that is why I say you can’t have ever heard of
her!... Because she was totally unknown.... Ah, poor wee waif! Alas,
she’s dead now. Judy’s among the angels ... and the beautiful little
elegy which, with your consent, I intend forthwith to submit, is written
around her, around little Judy, and around her old Father, her
‘_Da_’—James, who was a waiter. And while he was away waiting one day—he
used to wipe the plates on the seat of his breeches!—his little Judy
died. Ah, poor old James. Poor Sir James. But let the poet,” she broke
off suddenly, confused, “take up the tale himself, or, rather—to be more
specific!—_herself._ For the lines that follow, which are _inédit_, are
from the seductive and charming pen of Lady Violet Sleepwell.”

Lady Mary coughed, winked archly an eye, and began quite carelessly as
if it were Swinburne:

          “_I never_ knew _James Jacock’s child....
           I knew he_ had _a child!
           The daintiest little fairy that ever a father knew.
           She was all contentment._...”

Miss Sinquier looked away.

To her surprise, lurking behind a property torso of “a Fawn,” her
pigtails roped with beads of scarlet glass, was Miss May Mant.

“Tell me what you are up to?” she asked.

“Sh——! Don’t warn Ita!”

“Why should I?”

“I dodged her. Beautifully.”

“What for?”

“If she thought I was going on the stage, she’d be simply wild.”

“Are you?”

“I intend tacking on in the Pope’s Procession.”

“That won’t be just yet.”

“Oh, isn’t it wonderful?”

“What?”

“Being here.”

“It’s rather pleasant.”

“Can you feel the boards?”

“A little.”

“They go _right_ through me. Through my shoes, up my legs, and at my
heart they sting.”

“Kiss me.”

“I love you.”

“Pet.”

“Do I look interesting?”

“Ever so.”

“Would you take me for a Cardinal’s comfort?”

Lady Mary lifted up her voice:

               “_Come, Judy, the angel said,
                And took her from her little bed,
                And through the air they quickly sped
                Until they reached God’s throne;
                So, there, they dressed her all in white,
                They say she was a perfect sight,
                Celestial was her mien!_”

“Lady Violet Sleepwell admires Ita.”

“Indeed.”

“She’s a victim to chloral.”

                         “_Rose-coiffed stood J.
                          Amid the choir,
                          Celestial-singing!_”

The august artiste glowed.

“Ita thinks she drinks.”

“I shouldn’t wonder,” Miss Sinquier replied, covering her face with her
hands.

Through her fingers she could contemplate her accompanist’s lanky figure
as he stood in the opposite wing busily powdering his nose.

The moment, it seemed, had come.

Yet not quite—the public, who loved tradition, was determined on
obtaining an encore.

Lady Mary was prepared to acquiesce.

Curtseying from side to side and wafting kisses to the gods, she
announced:

“The Death of Hortense; by _Desire._”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  XII


                                  The Source Theatre.

    DEAR MOTHER,—I saw your notice in a newspaper not very long ago,
    and this morning I came across it again in the _Dispatch._
    Really I don’t know what there can be to “forgive,” and as to
    “coming back!”—I have undertaken the management of this theatre,
    where rehearsals of _Romeo and Juliet_ have already begun. This
    is the little house where Audrey Anderson made her début, and
    where Avize Mendoza made such a hit. You could imagine nothing
    cosier or more intimate if you tried. Father would be charmed
    (tell him, for, of course, he sometimes speaks of me in the long
    _triste_ evenings as he smokes a pipe) with the foyer, which has
    a mural design in marquetry, showing Adam and Eve in the Garden
    of Eden, sunning themselves by the side of a well. They say the
    theatre contains a well _beneath the stage_, which is why it’s
    known as the Source. I have left, I’m glad to say, the hotel,
    which was getting dreadfully on my nerves, for a dressing-room
    here, where I pass the nights now: an arrangement that suits me,
    as I like to be on the spot. A sister of Ita Iris of the Dream
    Theatre keeps me company, so that I’m not a bit solitary. We
    understand each other to perfection, and I find her helpful to
    me in many ways. She is such an affectionate child and I do not
    think I shall regret it. I’ve decided to have half my teeth
    taken out by a man in Knightsbridge—some trial to me, I fear;
    but, alas, we’ve all to carry our cross! I seem to have nothing
    but debts. Clothes, _as well_ as scenery, would ruin anyone.

    I’m allotting a little box to you and father for the opening
    night, unless you would prefer two stalls?

    The other afternoon I “offered my services” and obtained three
    curtains at a gala matinée; I wish you could have been at it!

                                  Your devoted Daughter.

    I went to the Oratory on Sunday; it was nothing but a blaze of
    candles.

    Remember me to Leonard and Gripper—also Kate.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  XIII


AN absence of ventilation made the room an oven and discouraged sleep.
Through the width of skylight, in inert recumbence, she could follow
wonderingly the frail pristine tints of dawn. Flushed, rose-barred, it
spread above her with fantastic drifting clouds masking the morning
stars.

From a neighbouring church a clock struck five.

Miss Sinquier sighed; she had not closed her eyes the whole night
through.

“One needs a blind,” she mused, “and a pane——.” She looked about her for
something to throw.

_Cinquecento_, Italian things—a chest, a crucifix, a huge guitar, a
grim, carved catafalque all purple sticks and violet legs (Juliet’s)
crowded the floor.

“A mess of glass ... and cut my feet ...;” she murmured, gathering about
her a _négligé_ of oxydized knitted stuff and sauntering out towards the
footlights in quest of air.

Notwithstanding the thermometer, she could hear Miss May Mant breathing
nasally from behind her door.

The stage was almost dark.

“Verona,” set in autumn trees, looked fast asleep. Here and there a
campanile shot up, in high relief, backed by a scenic hill, or an
umbrella-pine. On a column in the “Market Place” crouched a brazen lion.

An acrobatic impulse took her at the sight of it.

                   “_Sono pazza per te_
                    Si! _Sono pazza, pazza, pazza ...
                    Pazza per amore_,”

she warbled, leaping lightly over the footlights into the stalls.

The auditorium, steeped in darkness, felt extinguished, chill.

Making a circuit of the boxes, she found her way up a stairway into the
promenade.

Busts of players, busts of poets, busts of peris, interspersed by tall
mirrors in gilt-bordered mouldings, smiled on her good-day.

Sinking to a low, sprucely-cushioned seat, she breathed a sigh of
content.

Rid of the perpetual frictions of the inevitable _personnel_, she could
possess the theatre, for a little while, in quietude to herself.

In the long window boxes, tufts of white daisies inclining to the air
brought back to mind a certain meadow, known as _Basings_, a pet haunt
with her at home.

At the pond end, in a small coppice, doves cried “Coucoussou-coucoussou”
all the day long.

Here, soon a year ago, while weaving herself a garland (she was playing
at being Europa with the Saunders’ Fifeshire bull; flourishing flowers
at it; tempting it with waving poppies; defying it to bear her away from
the surrounding stagnance), the realization of her dramatic gift first
discovered itself.

And then, her thoughts tripped on, _he_ came: the Rev. George—“just as I
was wondering to whom to apply”—and drew all Applethorp to S.
Ann-on-the-Hill by the persuasive magnetism of his voice; largely due—so
he said—to “scientific production.” To the _Bromley Breath_! He never
could adequately thank Elizabeth, Mrs. Albert Bromley, for all she had
done. No; because words failed.... Her Institute, for him, would be
always “top-o’-the-tree,” and when asked, by her, “What tree?” he had
answered with a cryptic look: “She trains them for the stage.”

Dear heart! How much he seemed to love it. He had known by their
green-room names all the leading stars, and could tell on occasion,
little anecdotes of each.

It was he who narrated how Mrs. Mary (as she was then), on the first
night of _Gulnara, Queen of the Lattermonians_, got caught in the
passenger-lift on the way from her dressing-room to the stage and was
obliged to allow her understudy to replace her, which with the utmost
_éclat_ she did, while Mrs. Mary, who could overhear the salvos from her
prison, was driven quite distraught at a triumph that, but for the irony
of things, would most certainly have been hers.

Miss Sinquier sighed.

“Which reminds me,” she murmured, fixing her eyes upon the storied
ceiling, “that I’ve no one at all, should anything happen to me.”

She lay back and considered the inchoate imagery painted in gouache
above her.

Hydropic loves with arms outstretched in invitation, ladies in hectic
hats and billowing silks, courtiers, lap-dogs, peacocks, etc., all
intermingled in the pleasantest way.

As she gazed a great peace fell upon her. Her eyelids closed.

                  *       *       *       *       *

“Breakfast!”

Miss May Mant woke her with a start.

“Oh!”

“I laid it to-day in the stalls.”

“Extraordinary child.”

“Crumbs in the boxes, I’ve noticed, encourage mice.... They must come
from the spring, I think, under the stage.”

“One ought to set a trap!”

“Poor creatures ... they enjoy a good play, I expect, as much as we do,”
Miss Mant murmured, setting down the kettle she was holding and lowering
her cheek graciously for a kiss.

“Well?”

“You were asleep.”

“Was I horrid?”

“You looked too perfectly orchidaceous.”

“Orchidaceous?”

“Like the little women of Outa-Maro.”

Miss Sinquier sat up.

“What is there for breakfast?” she asked.

“Do you like porridge?”

“Oh, Réné!”

Miss Mant raised a bare shoulder and crushed it to an ear.

“Really,” she remarked, “I’m at a loss to know what to give you, Sally;
I sometimes ask myself what Juliet took....”

“Why, potions.”

“_Ita_ takes tea luke with a lemon; and it makes her _so_ cross.”

“Disgusting.”

“À la Russe.”

“Is she still away?”

“Yes.... She writes from a toy bungalow, she says, with the sea at the
very door and a small shipwreck lying on the beach.”

“What of Paris?”

“I’m Page to him, you said so!”

“With her consent.”

“Oh, Ita hates the stage. She’s only _on it_ of course to make a match
...; she could have been an Irish countess had she pleased, only she
said it wasn’t smart enough, and it sounded too Sicilian.”

“Everyone can’t be Roman.”

“... Oh, she’s such a minx. In her letter she writes, ‘I don’t doubt
you’ll soon grow tired of the Sally-Sin Theatre and of dancing
attendance on the Fair Sink.’”

“Cat.”

“And her Manting ways just to annoy. Mant, Mant, Mant! She does it to
humiliate. Whenever the Tirds are in earshot she’s sure to begin.”

“The Tirds?”

“Llewellyn and Lydia. Lydia Tird has an understanding with my big
brother. Poor lad! Just before I left home he took the name of Isadore:
Isadore Iris. Oh, when Ita heard! Bill Mant she said and made Llewellyn
laugh.”

“Oh!”

“And now that Mrs. Sixsmith ‘Mants’ me almost as much as Ita.”

“Why do you dislike her so much?”

“Cadging creature!”

“Réné?”

“Limpet.”

“Réné?”

“Parasite.”

“Réné——!”

“Scavenger.”

“_Basta!_”

“I know all about her.”

“What do you know?”

“If I tell you, I’ll have to tell you in French.”

“Then tell me in French.”

“Elle fait des cornes à son mari!”

“What next?”

“She’s _divorcée_!”

“Poor soul.”

“Out at _Bois St. Jean_—St. John’s Wood—she has a villa.”

Miss Sinquier got up.

“Anyway,” she murmured.

“Oh, Sally....”

“Well?”

“You do love me?”

“Why, _of course._”

“Let’s go presently to a Turkish bath—after rehearsal.”

“Not to-day.”

“... Just for a ‘Liver Pack’?”

“No.”

“Why not?”

“Because ... and when you’re out, don’t, dear, forget a mousetrap!”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  XIV


TO bring together certain of the dramatic critics (such high arbiters of
the stage as Sylvester Fry of the _Dispatch_, Lupin Petrol of _Now_,
Amethyst Valer of _Fashion_, Berinthia of _Woodfalls_ (the terrible, the
embittered Berinthia who was also Angela)), cards had been sent out from
Foreign-Colony Street, in the comprehensive name of Sir Oliver Dawtry,
the famous banker and financier, to meet the new lessee of the Source.

It was one of those sultry summer nights of electricity and tension,
when nerves at almost nothing are apt to explode. Beyond the iron
Calvary on the Ursulines’ great wall, London flared with lights.

Perched upon a parapet in brilliant solitude, her identity unsuspected
by the throng, Miss Sinquier, swathed in black mousseline and nursing a
sheaf of calla lilies, surveyed the scene with inexpressive eyes.

“And there was the wind bellowing and we witches wailing: and no
Macbeth!” a young man with a voice like cheap scent was saying to a
sympathetic journalist for whatever it might be worth....

Miss Sinquier craned her head.

Where were the two “Washingtons”? or the little Iris girl?

By the Buddha shrine, festively decked with lamps, couples were
pirouetting to a nigger band, while in the vicinity of the buffet, a
masked adept was holding a clairaudience of a nature only to be guessed
at from afar. An agile negro melody, wild rag-time with passages of
almost Wesleyan hymnishness—reminiscent of Georgia gospel-missions; the
eighteenth century in the Dutch East Indies—charmed and soothed the ear.

Miss Sinquier jigged her foot.

At their cell windows, as if riveted by the lights and commotion, leaned
a few pale nuns.

Poor things.

The call of the world could seldom wholly be quenched!

She started as a fan of seabirds’ feathers skimmed her arm.

“Sylvester’s come,” Mrs. Sixsmith in passing said.

“Oh!”

“Aren’t you scared?”

“Scared?”

“You know, he always belittles people. Sylvester traduces everyone; he
even crabs his daughter; he damns all he sees.”

“Boom!”

“How he got up those narrow stairs is a mystery to me,” Mrs. Sixsmith
smiled.

Miss Sinquier raised her face towards the bustling stars. An elfish
horse-shoe moon, felicitously bright, struck her as auspicious.

“One should bow to it,” she said.

“Idolatry!”

“There! look what nodding does.”

A blanche bacchante with a top-knot of leaves venturesomely approached.

“I’m Amethyst,” she murmured.

“Indeed?”

“Of _Fashion._ You are Miss Sinquier, I take it, whose costumes for
Romeo—Renaissance, and ergo _à la mode_!—I so long to hear about.”

Miss Sinquier dimpled.

“The frocks,” she said, “some of them, will be simply killing.”

“I want your first.”

“Loose white.”

“I suppose, _coiffé de sphinx avec un tortis de perles_?”

Miss Sinquier shook her head.

“No ‘Juliet-cap’ of spurious pearls for me,” she said.

“You dare to abolish it?”

“I do.”

“You excite me.”

“Unless the bloom is off the peach, Juliet needs no nets.”

Miss Valer lowered discreetly her voice.

“And your Romeo?” she queried. “He must make love angelically?”

“He does.”

“I admire enormously his friend.”

“Mr. Nice?”

“He has such perfect sloth. I love his lazaroni-ness, his
Riva-Schiavoni-ness.... He’s very, very handsome. But, of course, it
cannot last!”

“No?”

“Like an open rose: Have you no sympathy yourself?”

“None.”

“That’s a pity. An actress ... she needs a lover: a sort of husbandina,
as it were ...; I always say Passion tells: _L’amour!_”

Miss Sinquier threw a glance towards Mrs. Sixsmith, who stood listlessly
flirting her fan.

“I’m going to the buffet, child,” she said.

“Then I think I’ll join you.”

And drawing her friend’s arm within her own, Miss Sinquier moved away.

“She must belong to more than one weekly!” she reflected.

“You didn’t mention your Old Mechlin scarf, or your fox-trimmed
nightie,” Mrs. Sixsmith murmured, dexterously evading the psychic
freedoms of the masked adept.

“Have you no shame, _Paul_?” she asked.

“Paul!”

Miss Sinquier wondered.

“Mephisto! I know his parlour tricks ... though it would only be just,
perhaps, to say he did foresee our separation some time before it
occurred.”

“Oh, how extraordinary.”

“Once as I was making ready to pay some calls, in order to frighten me,
he caused the hare’s foot on my toilet-table to leave its carton sheath
and go skipping about the room.”

“Whatever did you do?”

“My dear, I was disgusted. It really seemed as if the whole of Womanhood
was outraged. So, to _punish_ him—for revenge—instead of going to a
number of houses that day, I went to only one.”

“There wouldn’t be time?”

“I shall always blame myself....”

“Why?”

But a lanthorn falling in flames just then above them put an end to the
conversation.

“That’s the second I’ve seen drop,” Miss May Mant exclaimed, darting up.

“What have you been up to?”

“Having my bumps examined.”

“What!”

“By the masked professor.... Oh, the things he said; only fancy, he told
me I’d cause the death of one both near and dear; Ita’s near ...; but
she certainly isn’t dear—odious cat.”

“He must have thought you curiously credulous,” Miss Sinquier murmured,
turning her head aside.

To her annoyance she perceived the scholarly representative of the
_Dispatch_—a man of prodigious size—leaning solidly on a gold-headed
cane while appraising her to Sir Oliver Dawtry, from her bebandeaued
head to her jewelly shoes.

“She reminds me just a little of someone _de l’Évangile_,” she could
hear the great critic say.

“Sylvester!”

“Oh?”

“Should he speak,” Mrs. Sixsmith murmured, wincing at the summer
lightning that flickered every now and then, “don’t forget the mediæval
nightie or the Mechlin lace! Five long yards—a cloud....”

Miss Sinquier buried her lips in her flowers.

Through the barred windows of the convent opposite, certain novices
appeared to be enjoying a small saltation among themselves.

Up and down the corridor to the yearning melody of the minstrel players
they twirled, clinging to one another in an ecstasy of delight.

Her fine eyes looked beautiful as, raising them fraught with soul, they
met the veteran critic’s own.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   XV


“OH, dear God, help me. Hear me, Jesu. Hear me and forgive me and be
offended not if what I ask is vain ... soften all hostile hearts and let
them love me—adore me!—oh Heaven, help me to please. Vouchsafe at each
_finale_ countless curtains; and in the ‘Potion Scene,’ oh Lord, pull me
through....”

Unwilling to genuflect in the presence of her maid, who would interpret
any unwontedness of gesture for first-night symptoms of fear, Miss
Sinquier lifted her face towards the bluish light of day that filtered
obliquely through the long glass-plating above.

“There’s a cat on the skylight, Smith,” was what she said as her maid
with a telegram recalled her wandering gaze to earth.

It was a telegram from her father.

“Missed conveyance York,” she read. “Bishopthorpe to-night
archiepiscopal blessings.”

“Ah, well, ...” she professionally philosophized, “there’ll be
_deadheads_ besides, I’ve no doubt.”

“Any answer, Miss?”

“Go, Smith, to the box office, and say G 2 and 3 (orchestra) have been
returned; there’s no answer,” she added, moving towards the brightly lit
dressing-room beyond.

Ensconced in an easy chair, before a folding mirror that, rich in
reflections, encompassed her screen-like about, sat Mrs. Sixsmith
pensively polishing her nails.

Miss Sinquier bit her lip.

“I thought——” she began.

“Sh——! Be Juliet now. We’re in Verona,” Mrs. Sixsmith exclaimed.
“_Fuori_ the doors.”

“Fancy finding _you._”

“Me?”

“What are you doing in _my Italy_?”

Mrs. Sixsmith threw a glance at herself in the glass. “I’m a girl
friend,” she said; “a Venetian acquaintance: someone _Julie_ met while
paddling in the Adriatic—in fact, _cara cuore_, I’m a daughter of the
Doge. Yes; I’m one of the Dolfin-Trons.”

“Don’t be ridiculous.”

“I’m Catarina Dolfin-Tron.”

“Kitty Tron!”

“Your own true Kate.”

“When are you going round?”

“Let me finish my hands. My manicurist has left me with such claws....
Poor little soul! When she came to my wedding-finger she just twiddled
her rasp and broke out crying. ‘To be filing people’s nails,’ she said,
‘while my husband is filing a petition!’”

“Wonderful that she could.”

“This city has its sadness. Your maid, Smith, while you were in the
other room said, ‘Oh, marm,’ she said, ‘what you must have endured; _one
Smith_ was enough for me.’”

“Poor Kate!”

“Ah, Julie ...” Mrs. Sixsmith sighed, when the door opening gently was
followed by the entry of Mrs. Smee.

“Am I disturbing you?” she asked.

“No, come in.”

“I want to tell you, my husband isn’t himself.”

“He’s ill?”

“He’s not himself.”

“In what way?”

“It’s a hard thing for a wife to confess. But for a première he’s nearly
always in wine.”

“Is he ... _much_?”

“I never knew him like it!”

Mrs. Sixsmith examined her nails.

“So violent?” she ventured.

“He’s more confused, dear, than violent,” Mrs. Smee explained. “He seems
to think we’re doing _The Tempest;_ Romeo’s tanned breast he takes for
Ferdinand’s. ‘Mind, Ferdy, boy,’ I heard him say, ‘and keep the —— out.’
Whereupon, his mind wandered to the Russian plays I love, and he ran
through some of Irina’s lines from _The Three Sisters_: ‘My soul,’ you
know she says, ‘my soul is like an expensive piano which is locked and
the key lost.’ Ah, there’s for you; Shakespeare never wrote that. He
couldn’t. Even by making piano, spinet. Oh, Russia! Russia! land of
Tchekhov, land of Andrief, of Solugub, of Korelenko, of
Artzibashef—Maria Capulet salutes thee! And then my man was moved to
sing. His love, she was in Otaheite.... But as soon as he saw me he was
back at _The Tempest_ again, calling me Caliban, Countess, and I don’t
know what.”

“Oh, how disgraceful.”

“After the performance I’ll pop home—Home!—in a drosky and shut him
out.”

“Meanwhile?”

“He’ll pass for a Friar. The Moujik!”

“Still....”

“He’ll probably be priceless; the masses always love the man who can
make them laugh.”

Miss Sinquier moved restlessly towards the door and looked out.

All was activity.

Plants for the balcony set of a rambling, twining nature, together with
a quantity of small wicker cages labelled “Atmospherics,” and containing
bats, owls, lizards, etc., were in course of being prepared.

The manageress knit her brows.

“Miss Marquis,” she called, “instead of teasing the animals, I suggest
you complete your toilet.”

“... She’d better look sharp!”

Mrs. Smee consulted her notes.

“She reminds me more of a nurse-maid than a nurse,” she murmured. “Not
what _I_ should have chosen for Juliet at all.”

“Perhaps not.”

“Miss Marquis has no stage presence. And such a poor physique—she’s too
mean.”

“Anyway, Sally’s got fine men. I never saw finer fellows. Even the
Apothecary! Fancy taking the fatal dose from a lad like that; he makes
me want to live.”

Mrs. Smee purred.

“To have interesting workmates is everything,” she said. “Hughie
Huntress, as Producer, seemed quite stunned at the subtle material at
his disposal.... In fact, he realized from the first, he told me, he
_couldn’t_ ‘produce’ all of it.”

Mrs. Sixsmith lowered her voice.

“Where did Sally find her Balthasar,” she asked, “and where did she
secure her Tybalt?”

“My dear Mrs. Sixsmith, I’m not in the management’s secrets, remember,
so much as you!”

“Or who put her in the way of Sampson and Gregory? And _where_ did she
get her Benvolio?”

“Through an agent, I don’t doubt.”

Mrs. Sixsmith threw a sidelong probing glance in the direction of the
door. Already in her heart she felt herself losing her hold. Had the
time inevitably come to make out the score?

Through the open door came a squeal.

“Sally, the owls!”

“Leave them, Réné,” Miss Sinquier ordered.

“_Dearest_, what diddlies; one has a look of old Sir Oliver!” Miss Mant
declared, coming forward into the room.

Clad in a pair of striped “culottes,” she had assumed, notwithstanding
sororal remonstrance, the conspicuous livery of Paris.

“I just looked in to thank you, darling,” she began, “for all your
sweetness and goodness.... Oh Sally, when I saw the playbill with my
name on it (right in among the gentlemen!) I thought I should have died.
Who could have guessed ever it would be a breeches part?”

“Turn round.”

“Such jealous murmurings already as there are; a-citizen-of-Verona—an
envious super without a line, whispered, as I went by, that my legs in
these tissue tights had a look of forced asparagus.”

“Nonsense.”

“Of course: I knew that, Sally. But devil take me. How I’ll hate going
back into virginals again; these trousers spoil you for skirts.”

“Sprite.”

“And I’d a trifling triumph too, darling, which I chose to ignore: just
as I was leaving my dressing-room, Jack Whorwood, all dressed up for
Tybalt, accosted me with a fatuous easy smile. ‘I want your picture,
Miss Iris, with your name on it,’ he said. ‘_Do_ you?’ I said. ‘I do,’
he said. ‘Then I fear you’ll have to,’ I said. Oh, he was cross! But all
the while, Sally, he was speaking I could feel the wolf....”

“Better be careful,” Mrs. Sixsmith snapped.

“As if I’d cater to his blue besoigns!”

“Réné, Réné?”

“Although I snubbed him,” Miss Iris murmured, stooping to examine upon
the toilet-table a beribboned aeroplane filled with sweets, “he looked
_too_ charming!”

Mrs. Smee chafed gently her hands.

“I must return to my Friar,” she said.

“He is saying the grossest, the wickedest things!”

“Mr. Smee’s sallies at times are not for young ears,” Mrs. Smee loftily
observed. “His witticisms,” she added, “aren’t for everyone.”

“My friend, Miss Tird, who came to watch me dress, was quite upset by
his cochônneries!”

“Although your little friend appears scarcely to be nine, she seems
_dazed_ by her sex and power,” Mrs. Smee unfavourably commented.

“I’ll have to go, I suppose,” Miss Sinquier sighed, “and see how matters
stand.”

“Prenez garde: for when making up, he mostly makes a palette of his
hand,” Mrs. Sixsmith said. “I happen to know—because one day he caught
hold of me.”

Mrs. Smee protruded her tongue and drew it slowly in.

“Hist!” she exclaimed.

Along the corridor the call-boy was going his rounds.

“First act beginners,” chirped he.

Miss Sinquier quivered.

“... Soften all hostile hearts and let them love me ...” she prayed.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  XVI


THE sound of rain-drops falling vigorously upon the glass roof awoke
her. A few wind-tossed, fan-shaped leaves tinged with hectic autumnal
colours spotted marvellously the skylight without, half-screening the
pale and monotonous sky beyond.

With a yawn she sat up amid her pillows, cushioning her chin on her
knees.

After the last night’s proceedings the room was a bower of gardenia,
heliotrope, and tuberose, whose allied odours during slumber had
bewildered just a little her head.

Flinging back the bed-clothes, she discovered as she did so a note.

“Sally,” she read, “Should you be conscious before I return, I’m only
gone to market, cordially yours, R. Iris. Such mixed verdicts! I’ve
arranged the early papers on your dressing-table. I could find no
reference to me. This morning there were rat-marks again, and part of a
mangled bat.”

“Oh, those ‘atmospherics’!” Miss Sinquier complained, finding
somnolently her way into the inner room.

Here all was Italy—Even the gauze-winged aeroplane filled with sweets
had an air of a silver water-fly from some serene trans-Alpine garden.

Dropping to a fine _cassoni_ she perused with contracted brows a small
sheaf of notices, the gist of which bore faint pencilled lines below.

“Her acting is a revelation.”

“We found her very refreshing.”

“There has been nothing like it for years.”

“Go to the Source.”

“An unfeminine Juliet.”

“A decadent Juliet.”

“... The Romeo kiss—you take your broadest fan.”

“The kiss in Romeo takes only fifteen minutes.... ‘Some’ kiss!”

“The Romeo kiss will be the talk of the town.”

“A distinctive revival.”

“I sat at the back of the pit-stalls and trembled.”

“Kiss——”

“The last word in kisses.”

“Tio, Tio, Io! Io! jug—jug!”

“Shakespeare as a Cloak.”

“A smart Juliet.”

“An immoral Juliet.”

“Before a house packed to suffocation——”

“Among those present at the Source last night were”—she looked—“were,
Queen Henriette Marie, Duchess of Norwich, Dismalia Duchess of
Meath-and-Mann, Lady Di Flattery, Lord and Lady Newblood, Mr. and Lady
Caroline Crofts, Sir Gottlieb and Lady Gretel Teuton-Haven, ex-King
Bomba, ex-King Kacatogan, ex-Queen of Snowland, ex-Prince Marphise, Hon.
Mrs. Mordecai, Lady Wimbush, Lord and Lady Drumliemore, Sir John and
Lady Journeyman, Lord and Lady Lonely, Lady Harrier, Feodorowna Lady
Meadowbank, Lady Lucy Lacy, Duchess of Netherland and _Lady Diana
Haviours_, Miss Azra, Miss Christine Cross, Sir Francis and Lady Four,
Madame Kotzebue, Comtesse Yvonde de Tot, Mlle. de Tot, Duque de
Quaranta, Marquesa Pitti-Riffa and Sir Siegfried Seitz.”

So ... she sneezed, all was well!

A success: undoubtedly.

“Oh God! How quite ... _delicious_!” she murmured, snatching up a
Cinquecento cope transformed to be a dressing-gown, and faring forth for
an airing upon the stage.

At that hour there wasn’t a soul.

The darkened auditorium looked wan and eerie, the boxes caves.

The churchyard scene with its unassuming crosses, accentuating the regal
sepulchre of the Capulets (and there for that), showed grimly.

“Wisht!” she exclaimed, as a lizard ran over her foot.

Frisking along the footlights, it disappeared down a dark trap hole.

Had Réné been setting more traps? Upon a mysterious mound by a jam-jar
full of flowers was a hunk of cheese.

She stood a moment fascinated.

Then bracing herself, head level, hands on hips, she executed a few
athletic figures to shake off sleep.

Suddenly there was a cry; a cry that was heard outside the theatre
walls, blending half-harmoniously with the London streets.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  XVII


THE rich trot of funeral horses died imperceptibly away.

Looking out somewhat furtively from beneath her veil, Mrs. Sixsmith
could observe only a few farmers conversing together beneath the
immemorial yews of S. Irene.

It was over.

There was nothing left to do but to throw a last glance at the wreaths.

“From the artists and staff of the Source Theatre as a trifling proof of
their esteem”—such the large lyre crushing her own “Resurgam.” And there
also was the Marys’ with their motto: “All men and women are merely
players. They have their exits and their entrances.” And the “Heureuse!”
tribute by the sexton’s tools—she craned—was Yvonde _de_ Yalta’s, it
appeared.

“Yvonde de Yalta!”

Mrs. Sixsmith gulped.

“You grieve?”

Canon Sinquier stood beside her.

“I——” she stammered.

“So many tributes,” he said.

“Indeed, sir, the flowers are extremely handsome.”

“So many crowns and crosses, harps and garlands.”

“One has to die for friends to rally!”

“Were you in her company?”

“I, Canon?... I never was on the stage in my life!”

“No?”

“My husband never would listen to it: he holds with Newman.”

“... I don’t recollect.”

“Besides, I’m no use at acting at all.”

“You knew my poor daughter well?”

“I was her protégée ... that is ... it was _I_ who tried to protect
her,” Mrs. Sixsmith replied.

“My dear madam.”

“Oh, Canon, why was her tomb not in Westminster where so many of her
profession are? I was reading somewhere only the other day there are
more _actresses_ buried there than Kings!”

“It may be so.”

“Here ... she is so isolated ... so lost. Sally loved town.”

“Tell me,” he begged, “something of her end.”

“Indeed, sir——”

“You’re too weary?”

“Oh, I _hate_ a funeral, Canon! Listening to their Jeremiads.”

“You shall take my arm.”

“Her father was her cult, Canon.... In that she resembled much the
irresistible Venetian—_Catarina Dolfin-Tron._”

“Sally seldom wrote.”

“Her time, you should remember, was hardly her own.”

“Tell me something,” he insisted, “of her broken brilliance.”

“Only by keening her could I hope to do that.”

“One would need to be a Bion. Or a Moschus....”

“We laid her star-like, in the dress-circle—out on Juliet’s bier ... Mr.
and Mrs. Smee and her dresser watched ... Berinthia ... Sylvester ...
came. I cannot loose from mind one of the scene-shifters said to me,
‘How bonny she looked on the bloody balcony.’”

“My poor darling.”

“On the evening of her dissolution, I regret to say there was a most
unseemly fracas in the foyer—some crazy wretch demanding back her money,
having booked her place in advance; every one of the staff in tears and
too unstrung to heed her. Had it been a box, Canon; or even a stall! But
she only paid four shillings.”

“Was there anything on my poor child’s mind distressing her at all?”

“Not that I’m aware of.”

“No little affair...?”

“No....”

“Nothing?”

“Your girl was never loose, Canon. She was straight. Sally was straight
... at least,” Mrs. Sixsmith added (with a slight shrug) ... “to the
best of my knowledge, she was!”

“In a life of opportunity....”

“Ah, sh——, sir, sh——!”

“Had my daughter debts?”

“Indeed she had ... she owed me money. Much money. But I won’t refer to
that.... Sally owed me one thousand pounds.”

“She owed you a thousand pounds?”

“She was infinitely involved.”

“Upon what could she spend so much?”

“Her clothes,” Mrs. Sixsmith replied with a nervous titter, “for one
thing, were exquisite. All from the atelier of the divine Katinka
King....”

“King?”

“She _knew_! Puss! The white mantilla for the Balcony scene alone cost
her close on three hundred pounds.”

“And where, may I ask, is it now?”

“It disappeared,” Mrs. Sixsmith answered, a quick red shooting over her
face, “in the general confusion. I hear even,” she murmured with a
little laugh, “they even filched the till!”

“What of the little _ingénue_ she took to live with her?”

“May Mant? Her sister is sending her to school—if (that is) she can get
her to go!”

“It was her inadvertence, I take it, that caused my daughter’s death.”

“Indeed, sir, yes. But for her—she had been setting traps! She and a
girl called Tird: a charming couple!”

“Oh?”

“Your daughter and she used frequently to take their meals in the boxes,
which made, of course, for mice. There was a well, you know, below the
stage.”

“So she wrote her mother.”

Mrs. Sixsmith fumbled in the depths of a beaded pouch.

“There was a letter found in one of her jacket-pockets, Canon,” she
said. “Perhaps you might care to have it.”

“A letter? From whom?”

“A young coster of Covent Garden, who saw your daughter at a
stage-farewell.”

“Be so good, dear lady, as to inform me of its contents.”

“It’s quite illiterate,” Mrs. Sixsmith murmured, putting back her veil
and glancing humorously towards the grave.

    “DEAR MISS,

    “I seed you at the Fisher Mat. on Friday last and you took my
    heart a treat. I’m only a young Gallery boy—wot’s in the flower
    trade. But I knows wot I knows—And you’re It. Oh Miss! I does
    want to see you act in Juliet in your own butey-ful ouse, if
    only you ad a seat as you could spare just for me and a pal o’
    mine as is alright. I send you some red cars sweet and scenty
    fresh from Covent Market, your true-gone

                                  “BILL.

    “Hoping for tickets.”

“Poor lad. Sally would have obliged him, I feel sure,” Canon Sinquier
said.

“Alas, what ephemeral creatures, Canon, we are.”

“We are in His hands.”

“She knew that. Sally’s faith never forsook her.... Oh, Canon, some day
perhaps I may come to you to direct me. I’m so soul-sick.”

“Is there no one in London to advise you?”

“Nobody at all.”

“Indeed? You astonish me.”

“I’m perfectly tired of London, Canon!”

“Your husband, no doubt, has his occupation there.”

“My husband and I are estranged....”

“You’ve no child?”

“Alas, Canon! I often think ... sometimes ... I would like to adopt one.
A little country buttercup! Really ... a dog, even the best of
mannered—isn’t very _comme il faut._”

“You seek a boy?”

“Mer-cy _no_! Nothing of the sort.... You quite mistake my meaning.”

“Your meaning madam was obscure.”

“I imply a girl ... a blonde! And she’d share with me, sir, every
facility, every advantage. Her education should be my care.”

“What is your age?”

“From thirteen——”

“An orphan?”

“Preferably.”

“I will discuss the affair presently with my wife,” Canon Sinquier said,
turning in meditation his steps towards the wicket-gate.

“Before leaving your charming city, Canon, I should like beyond
everything to visit the episcopal Palace: Sally used often to speak of
the art-treasures there.”

“Art-treasures?”

“Old pictures!”

“Are you an amateur of old pictures?”

“Indeed I am. My husband once—Paul—he paid a perfect fortune for a Dutch
painting; and will you believe me, Canon! It was only of the back view
of a horse.”

“A Cuyp?”

“A Circus—with straw-knots in its tail. It used to hang in Mr.
Sixsmith’s study; and there it always was! Frankly,” she added, brushing
a black kid glove to her face, “I used sometimes to wish it would kick.”

“If you’re remaining here any length of time, there are some portraits
at the Deanery that are considered to be of interest, I believe.”

“Portraits!”

“Old ecclesiastical ones.”

“Oh, Canon?”

“Perhaps you would come quietly to dinner. At which of our inns are
you?”

“I’m at the Antelope.”

“I know that my girl would have wished our house to be open to you. You
were her friend. Her champion....”

“Dear Canon—don’t ... don’t: You mustn’t! She’s at peace. Nothing can
fret her. Nothing shall fret her ... ever now. And, you know, as a
manageress, she was liable to vast vexations.”

“My poor pet.”

“She’s _hors de combat_: free from a calculating and dishonest world;
ah, Canon!”

“We shall expect you, then, dear Sally’s friend, to dinner this evening
at eight,” Canon Sinquier murmured as he walked away.

Mrs. Sixsmith put up a large chiffon sunshade and hovered staccato
before the dwindling spires and ogee dome of S. Irene.

It was one of the finest days imaginable. The sun shone triumphantly in
the midst of a cloudless sky.

She would loiter awhile among the bougainvilleas and dark, spreading
laurels of the Cathedral green, trespassing obtusely now and then into
quiet gardens, through tall wrought-iron gates.

New visions and possibilities rare rose in her mind.

With Sally still, she could do a lot. Through her she would be received
with honours, into the courtly circles of the Close.

Those fine palatial houses, she reflected, must be full of wealth ...
old Caroline plate and gorgeous green Limoges: Sally indeed had proved
it! The day she had opened her heart in the Café Royal she had spoken of
a massive tureen _too heavy even to hold._

Mrs. Sixsmith’s eyes grew big.

Her lost friend’s father wished for anecdotes; anecdotes of her “broken
brilliance”; he should have them. She saw herself indulging him with
“Salliana,” wrapped in a white lace mantilla of old Mechlin lace.

An invitation from Canon and Mrs. Sinquier should be adroitly played for
to-night: “And once in the house!...” she schemed, starting as a
peacock, a symbol of S. Irene, stretched from a bougainvillea shrouded
wall its sapphire neck at her as if to peck.

Her thoughts raced on.

On a near hill beyond the river reach, the sombre little church of S.
Ann changed to a thing of fancy against a yellowing sky.

From all sides, seldom in unison, pealed forth bells. In fine religious
gaiety struck S. Mary, contrasting clearly with the bumble-dumble of S.
Mark. S. Elizabeth and S. Sebastian in Flower Street seemed in high
dispute, while across the sunset water S. Ann-on-the-Hill did nothing
but complain. Near by S. Nicaise, half-paralysed, and impotent, scarcely
shook. Then triumphant, in a hurricane of sound S. Irene hushed the lot.

Mrs. Sixsmith fetched a long, calm breath.

It was already the hour he had said.

“And my experience tells me,” she murmured, as she took her way towards
the Deanery, “that with opportunity and time he may hope to succeed to
Sir Oliver.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




 ● Transcriber’s Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was silently corrected.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.
    ○ Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation were made consistent only
      when a predominant form was found in this book.
    ○ Text that:
      was in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_);
      had extra character spacing by “plus” signs (+stretched+).

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CAPRICE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
